A  Model  City  Charter 

and 

Municipal  Home  Rule 

as  prepared  by  the 
Committee  on  Municipal  Program 

of  the 

National  Municipal  League 


Final  Edition 
March  15,  1916 


A  MODEL  CITY  CHARTER 

AND 

MUNICIPAL  HOME  RULE 

AS  PREPARED  BY  THE 
COMMITTEE    ON    MUNICIPAL  PROGRAM 

OF  THE 

NATIONAL  MUNICIPAL  LEAGUE 


PHILADELPHIA 
1916 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


MUNICIPAL  HOME  RULE:  CONSTITUTIONAL 


PROVISIONS.  PAGE 

Section  1.    Incorporation  and  Organization   7 

Section  2.    Optional  Laws   7 

Section  3.    City  Charters   7 

Section  4.    Amendments    8 

Section  5.    Powers   9 

Section  6.    Reports    10 

Section  7.    Elections    10 

Section  8.    Consolidation  of  City  and  County   10 

THE  MODEL  CHARTER. 

THE  COUNCIL. 

Section  1.    Creation  of  Council   11 

Section  2.    Composition  of  Council  and  Vacancies   12 

Section  3.    Powers  of  Council   12 

Section  4.    Election  by  Councils.    Rules.    Quorum   13 

Section  5.    Organization  and  Procedure  of  Council   13 

Section  6.    Powers  of  Mayor   14 

NOMINATIONS  AND  ELECTIONS. 

Section    7.    Municipal  Elections   14 

Section    8.    Nomination  by  Petition   14 

Section    9.    Signatures  to  and  Forms  of  Nomination  Papers. ..  15 

Section  10.    Filing  Nomination  Papers   16 

THE  RECALL. 

Section  11.    Procedure  for  Filing  Recall  Petition   18 

Section  12.    Examination  and  Amendment  of  Recall  Petitions. .  19 

Section  13.    Calling  of  Recall  Election   19 

Section  14.    Form  of  Ballot  to  Recall  Officer   20 

Section  15.    Procedure  on  Refusal  of  Council   20 

THE  INITIATIVE. 

Section  16.    Power  to  Initiate  Ordinances   21 

Section  17.    Preparation  of  Initiative  Petitions   21 

Section  18.    Filing  of  Petitions   21 

Section  19.    Submission  of  Petition  to  Council   22 

Section  20.    Election  on  Initiated  Measures   22 

Section  21.    Initiative  Ballots    24 

Section  22.    Number  of  Measures  to  be  Initiated   24 

THE  REFERENDUM.  ^ 

Section  23.    Power  of  Referendum   24 

Section  24.    Limitations  on  Enforcement  of  Ordinances   24 

Section  25.    Referendum   Petition   25 


2 


THE  REFERENDUM— Continued:  page 

Section  26.    Signatures  to  Petition  L   25 

Section  27.    Certification  of  Petition   25 

Section  28.    Referendum  Election   26 

Section  29.    Title  of  Ballot   26 

Section  30.    Form  of  Ballot   27 

Section  31.    Emergency  Measures   27 

Section  32.    Official  Publicity  Pamphlet   27 

Section  33.    Conflict  of  Referred  Measures   28 

ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE:  THE  CITY  MANAGER. 

Section  34,    The  City  Manager   29 

Section  35.    Power  and  Duties  of  the  City  Manager   29 

Section  36.    Annual  Budget   30 

administrative  departments. 

Section  37.    Administrative  Departments  Created   30 

Section  38.    Duties  of  Directors  of  Departments   31 

Section  39.    Responsibility  of  Directors  of  Departments   31 

Section  40.    Powers  of  Subpoena   31 

CIVIL  SERVICE  BOARD. 

Section  41.    Creation  of  Civil  Service  Board   32 

Section  42.    Power  to  Make  Rules  and  What  the  Rules  Shall 

Provide    32 

Section  43.    Supervisory  Powers  of  Civil  Service  Board   34 

Section  44.    Power  of  Removal  and  Suspension   36 

Section  45.    Restrictions  on  Civil  Service  Appointees  and  For- 
bidden Practices   36 

Section  46.    Politics  and  Religion  Excluded   38 

Section  47.    Violations  of  Civil  Service  Rules  and  Regulations  38 

Section  48.    Power  of  Taxpayer  to  Enforce  Rules   38 

FINANCIAL  PROVISIONS. 

Section  49.    The  Director  of  Finance   39 

Section  50.    Accounts  and  Records   39 

Section  51.    Annual   Budget   39 

Section  52.    Appropriation  Ordinance.    Temporary  Appropria- 
tions.   Transfers.   40 

Section  53.    Tax  Levy   41 

Section  54.    Assessment  of  Property   41 

.    Section  55.    Special  Assessments   41 

Section  56.    Bond   Issues   42 

Section  57.    Temporary  Loans   43 

Section  58.    Restrictions  on  Loans  and  Credit   43 

Section  59.    Collection  and  Custody  of  City  Moneys   43 

Section  60.    Contracts  and  Purchases   44 

Section  61.    Payment  of  Claims   44 

Section  62.    Audit  of  Accounts   45 


3 


PUBLIC  UTILITIES.  page 

Section  63.    Granted  by  Ordinance   46 

Section  64.    Term  and  Plan  of  Purchase   47 

Section  65.    Right  of  Regulation   47 

Section  66.    Consents  of  Property  Owners   48 

Section  67.    Revocable  Permits   48 

Section  68.    Extensions    49 

Section  69.    Other  Conditions   49 

Section  70.    Franchise   Records   49 

Section  71.    Bureau  of  Franchises  and  Public  Utilities   49 

Section  72.    Accounts  of  Municipally  Owned  Utilities   50 

CITY  PLANNING. 

Section  73.    Creation  of  a  City  Planning  Board   51 

Section  74.    Power  of  Board   51 

Section  75.    Annual  Report   52 

Section  76.    Secretary  of  the  Board   52 

MISCELLANEOUS  PROVISIONS. 

Section  77.    Publicity  of  Accounts   53 

Section  78.    No  Personal  Interest   53 

Section  79.    When  Charter  ShaU  Take  Effect   53 

APPENDIX  A.    THE  HARE  SYSTEM  OF  PROPORTIONAL 
REPRESENTATION. 

Section  1.    Marking  the  Ballot   54 

Section  2.    Rules  for  Counting  the  Ballots   54 

APPENDIX  B.    PREFERENTIAL  BALLOT. 

Section  1.    Preparation  of  Ballot   58 

Section  2.    Arrangement  for  First,  Second  and  Other  Choices.  58 

Section  3.    Form  of  Ballot   59 

Section  4.    Counting  of  Ballots   59 


4 


THE  COMMITTEE  ON  MUNICIPAL  PROGRAM 

Was  appointed  in  1913  to  consider  the  original  "Municipal 
Program"  adopted  in  1900  and  if  desirable  to  draft  a  new 
model  charter  and  home  rule  constitutional  amendments  em- 
bodying' the  result  of  subsequent  study  and  developments. 
This  committee  presented  a  partial  report  to  the  meeting  of 
the  League  in  Baltimore,  in  November,  1914,  in  the  form  of 
sections  dealing  with  the  council,  the  city  manager  and  the 
civil  service  board.  The  committee  held  two  day  sessions  in 
New  York,  April  8  and  9,  1915,  at  which  time  these  sections 
were  carefully  revised  and  sections  dealing  with  the  in- 
itiative, referendum,  recall  and  other  electoral  provisions 
were  considered  and  added,  and  a  partial  draft  of  the  con- 
stitutional provisions,  which  had  been  presented  at  the  Bal- 
timore meeting  was  completed.  Another  meeting  of  the 
committee  was  held  in  New  York  September  14,  1915,  at 
which  further  revisions  were  made,  and  the  financial  provi- 
sions added  as  well  as  the  two  appendices  treating  of  propor- 
tional representation  and  franchise  provisions,  all  of  which 
were  included  in  the  tentative  draft.  The  Program  was 
again  submitted  to  the  League  at  its  annual  meeting  in  Day- 
ton on  November  19,  1915,  and  the  sections  were  approved 
by  the  members  there  present.  The  document  was  referred 
back  to  the  Committee  on  Municipal  Program  for  further 
amendments,  and  these  amendments  as  adopted  at  a  meeting 
of  the  Committee  in  Philadelphia,  December  27  and  28, 
1915,  are  also  contained  in  the  following  Program. 

The  Committee  on  Municipal  Program  consists  of : 

William  Dudley  Foulke,  Chairman,  Richmond,  Ind. 

M.  N.  Baker,  of  the  Engineering  News, 

Richard  S.  Childs,  New  York  City, 

John  A.  Fairlie,  University  of  Illinois. 

Mayo  Fesler,  Civic  League,  Cleveland, 

A.  R.  Hatton,  Western  Reserve  University,  Cleveland, 

Herman  G.  James,  University  of  Texas, 

A.  Lawrence  Lowell,  Harvard  University, 

William  Bennett  Munro,  Harvard  University, 

Rorert  Treat  Paine,  Boston, 

Delos  F.  Wilcox,  New  York  City, 

Clinton  Rogers  Woodruff,  Philadelphia, 

5 


Municipal  Home  Rule 
Constitutional  Provisions 

(To  be  adopted  and  incorporated  in  the  state  constitution) 

1  Section    1.    Incorporation   and   Organization.  Pro- 

2  vision  shall  be  made  by  a  general  law  for  the  incorporation 

3  of  cities  and  villages ;  and  by  a  general  law  for  the  organiza- 

4  tion  and  government  of  cities  and  villages  which  do  not 

5  adopt  laws  or  charters  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 

6  sections  2  and  3  of  this  article. 

7  Sec.  2.    Optional  Lams.    Laws  may  be  enacted  affect- 

8  ing  the  organization  and  government  of  cities  and  villages, 

9  which  shall  become  effective  in  any  city  or  village  only  when 
10  submitted  to  the  electors  thereof  and  approved  by  a  ma- 
ll jority  of  those  voting  thereon. 

12  Sec.  3.    City  Charters.    Any  city  may  frame  and  adopt 

13  a  charter  for  its  own  government  in  the  following  manner*. 

14  The  legislative  authority  of  the  city  may  by  a  two-thirds 

15  vote  of  its  members,  and,  upon  the  petition  of  ten  per  cent 

16  of  the  qualified  electors,  shall  forthwith  provide  by  ordi- 

17  nance  for  the  submission  to  the  electors  of  the  question: 

18  "Shall  a  commission  be  chosen  to  frame  a  charter?"  The 

19  ordinance  shall  require  that  the  question  be  submitted  to  the 

20  electors  at  the  next  regular  municipal  election,  if  one  shall 

21  occur  not  less  than  sixty  nor  more  than  one  hundred  and 

22  twenty  days  after  its  passage,  otherwise,  at  a  special  elec- 

23  tion  to  be  called  and  held  within  the  time  aforesaid ;  the  ballot 

24  containing  such  question  shall  also  contain  the  names  of 

25  candidates  for  members  of  the  proposed  commission,  but 

26  without  party  designation. 

27  Such  candidates  shall  be  nominated  by  petition  which 

28  shall  be  signed  by  not  less  than  two  per  cent  of  the  qualified 

29  electors,  and  be  filed  with  the  election  authorities  at  least 

30  thirty  days  before  such  election;  provided,  that  in  no  case 

31  shall  the  signatures  of  more  than  one  thousand  (1000)  quali- 

32  fied  electors  be  required  for  the  nomination  of  any  candidate. 

33  If  a  majority  of  the  electors  voting  on  the  question  of  choos- 

34  ing  a  commission  shall  vote  in  the  affirmative,  then  the  fifteen 

7 


1  candidates  receiving  the  highest  number  of  votes  (or  if  the 

2  legislative  authority  of  the  state  provides  by  general  law  for 

3  the  election  of  such  commissioners  by  means  of  a  preferential 

4  ballot  or  proportional  representation  or  both,  then  the 

5  fifteen  chosen  in  the  manner  required  by  such  general  law) 

6  shall  constitute  the  charter  commission  and  shall  proceed  to 

7  frame  a  charter. 

8  Any  charter  so  framed  shall  be  submitted  to  the  qualified 

9  electors  of  the  city  at  an  election  to  be  held  at  a  time  to  be 

10  determined  by  the  charter  commission,  which  shall  be  at  least 

11  thirty  days  subsequent  to  its  completion  and  distribution 

12  among  the  electors  and  not  more  than  one  year  from  the 

13  date  of  the  election  of  the  charter  commission.  Alternative 

14  provisions  may  also  be  submitted  to  be  voted  upon  sepa- 

15  rately.    The  commission  shall  make  provision  for  the  dis- 

16  tribution  of  copies  of  the  proposed  charter  and  of  any  alter- 

17  native  provisions  to  the  qualified  electors  of  the  city  not 

18  less  than  thirty  days  before  the  election  at  which  it  is  voted 

19  upon.    Such  proposed  charter  and  such  alternative  pro- 

20  visions  as  are  approved  by  a  majority  of  the  electors  voting 

21  thereon  shall  become  the  organic  law  of  such  city  at  such 

22  time  as  may  be  fixed  therein,  and  shall  supersede  any  existing 

23  charter  and  all  laws  affecting  the  organization  and  govern- 

24  ment  of  such  city  which  are  in  conflict  therewith.  Within 

25  thirty  days  after  its  approval  the  election  authorities  shall 

26  certify  a  copy  of  such  charter  to  the  secretary  of  state,  who 

27  shall  file  the  same  as  a  public  record  in  his  office,  and  the 

28  same  shall  be  published  as  an  appendix  to  the  session  laws 

29  enacted  by  the  legislature. 

30  Sec.  4.    Amendments.    Amendments  to  any  such  char- 

31  ter  may  be  framed  and  submitted  by  a  charter  commission 

32  in  the  same  manner  as  provided  in  section  3  for  framing  and 

33  adopting  a  charter.    Amendments  may  also  be  proposed  by 

34  two-thirds  of  the  legislative  authority  of  the  city,  or  by  pe- 

35  tition  of  ten  per  cent  of  the  electors;  and  any  such  amend- 

36  ment,   after   due   public   hearing   before   such  legislative 

37  authority,  shall  be  submitted  at  a  regular  or  special  election 

38  as  is  provided  for  the  submission  of  the  question  of  choosing 

9 


1  a  charter  commission.    Copies  of  all  proposed  amendments 

2  shall  be  sent  to  the  qualified  electors.    Any  such  amendment 

3  approved  by  a  majority  of  the  electors  voting  thereon  shall 
4s  become  a  part  of  the  charter  of  the  city  at  the  time  fixed  in 

5  the  amendment  and  shall  be  certified  to  and  filed  and  pub- 

6  lished  by  the  secretary  of  state  as  in  the  case  of  a  charter. 

7  Sec.  5.    Powers.    Each  city  shall  have  and  is  hereby 

8  granted  the  authority  to  exercise  all  powers  relating  to 

9  municipal  affairs ;  and  no  enumeration  of  powers  in  this  con- 

10  stitution  or  any  law  shall  be  deemed  to  limit  or  restrict  the 

11  general  grant  of  authority  hereby  conferred;  but  this  grant 

12  of  authority  shall  not  be  deemed  to  limit  or  restrict  the 

13  power  of  the  legislature,  in  matters  relating  to  state  affairs, 

14  to  enact  general  laws  applicable  alike  to  all  cities  of  the 

15  state. 

16  The  following  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  part  of  the  powers 

17  conferred  upon  cities  by  this  section: 

18  (a)    To  levy,  assess  and  collect  taxes  and  to  borrow 

19  money,  within  the  limits  prescribed  by  general  law;  and  to 

20  levy  and  collect  special  assessments  for  benefits  conferred; 

21  (b)    To  furnish  all  local  public  services;  to  purchase, 

22  hire,  construct,  own,  maintain,  and  operate  or  lease  local 

23  public  utilities ;  to  acquire,  by  condemnation  or  otherwise, 
24j  within  or  without  the  corporate  limits,  property  necessary 

25  for  any  such  purposes,  subject  to  restrictions  imposed  by 

26  general  law  for  the  protection  of  other  communities ;  and  to 

27  grant  local  public  utility  franchises  and  regulate  the  exer- 

28  cise  thereof ; 

29  (c)     To  make  local  public  improvements  and  to  acquire, 

30  by  condemnation  or  otherwise,  property  within  its  corporate 

31  limits  necessary  for  such  improvements ;  and  also  to  acquire 

32  an  excess  over  that  needed  for  any  such  improvement,  and 

33  to  sell  or  lease  such  excess  property  with  restrictions,  in 
34«  order  to  protect  and  preserve  the  improvement ; 

35  (d)    To  issue  and  sell  bonds  on  the  security  of  any  such 

36  excess  property,  or  of  any  public  utility  owned  by  the  city, 

37  or  of  the  revenues  thereof,  or  of  both,  including  in  the  case 

9 


1  of  a  public  utility,  if  deemed  desirable  by  the  city,  a  fran- 

2  chise  stating  the  terms  upon  which,  in  case  of  foreclosure, 

3  the  purchaser  may  operate  such  utility; 

4  (e)    To  organize  and  administer  public  schools  and 

5  libraries,  subject  to  the  general  laws  establishing  a  standard 

6  of  education  for  the  state; 

7  (f)     To  adopt  and  enforce  within  its  limits  local  police, 

8  sanitary  and  other  similar  regulations  not  in  conflict  with 

9  general  laws. 

10  Sec.  6.    Reports.    General  laws  may  be  passed  requir- 

11  ing  reports  from  cities  as  to  their  transactions  and  financial 

12  condition,  and  providing  for  the  examination  of  the  vouchers 

13  by  state  officials,  books  and  accounts  of  all  municipal  au- 

14  thorities,  or  of  public  undertakings  conducted  by  such 

15  authorities. 

16  Sec.  7.    Elections.     All  elections  and  submissions  of 

17  questions  provided  for  in  this  article  or  in  any  charter  or  law 

18  adopted  in  accordance  herewith  shall  be  conducted  by  the 

19  election  authorities  provided  by  general  law. 

20  Sec.  8.    Consolidation  of  City  and  County.    Any  city 

21  of  100,000  population  or  over,1  upon  vote  of  the  electors 

22  taken  in  the  manner  provided  by  general  law,  may  be  organ- 

23  ized  as  a  distinct  county;  and  any  such  city  and  county 

24  may  in  its  municipal  charter  provide  for  the  consolidation 

25  of  the  county,  city  and  all  other  local  authorities  in  one  sys- 

26  tern  of  municipal  government,  in  which  provision  shall  be 

27  made  for  the  exercise  of  all  powers  and  duties  vested  in  the 

28  several  local  authorities.    Any  such  consolidated  city  and 

29  county  government  shall  also  have  the  same  powers  to  levy 

30  taxes  and  to  borrow  money  as  were  vested  in  the  several  local 

31  authorities  before  consolidation. 

Note  1.    This  number  may  be  varied  to  suit  local  conditions  in  the 
several  states. 


10 


The  Model  Charter  1 


THE  COUNCIL. 

1  Section   1.    Creation  of  Council.     There  is  hereby 

£  created  a  council  which  shall  have  full  power  and  authority, 

3  except  as  herein  otherwise  provided,  to  exercise  all  the 

4  powers  conferred  upon  the  city. 

Note  1.  This  model  is  assumed  to  be  a  home  rule  charter  based 
upon  some  such  provisions  for  constitutional  municipal  home  rule  as 
those  suggested  in  this  report.  When  this  or  a  similar  charter  is  made 
available  for  cities  by  statute  it  is  desirable  that  a  comprehensive  grant 
of  powers  be  included  in  the  act  itself.  Otherwise  cities  securing  such 
a  charter  will  have  only  the  powers  enumerated  in  the  general  law  of 
the  state  and  be  subject  to  all  the  restrictions  and  inconveniences  aris- 
ing from  that  method  of  granting  powers.  It  is  suggested,  therefore, 
that  the  following  grant  of  powers  be  included  in  any  such  special 
statutory  charter  or  optional  charter  law.  The  changes  of  language 
necessary  to  adapt  it  to  a  special  statutory  charter  readily  suggest 
themselves : 

Section  — .  Cities  organized  under  this  act  shall  have  and  are 
hereby  granted  authority  to  exercise  all  powers  relating  to  their  munici- 
pal affairs;  and  no  enumeration  of  powers  in  any  law  shall  be  deemed 
to  restrict  the  general  grant  of  authority  hereby  conferred. 

The  following  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  part  of  the  powers  conferred 
upon  cities  by  this  section: 

(a)  To  levy,  assess  and  collect  taxes  and  to  borrow  money  within 
the  limits  prescribed  by  general  law;  and  to  levy  and  collect  special 
assessments  for  benefits  conferred. 

(b)  To  furnish  all  local  public  services;  to  purchase,  hire,  con- 
struct, own,  maintain  and  operate  or  lease  local  public  utilities;  to 
acquire,  by  condemnation  or  otherwise,  within  or  without  the  corporate 
limits,  property  necessary  for  any  such  purposes,  subject  to  restric- 
tions imposed  by  general  law  for  the  protection  of  other  communities; 
and  to  grant  local  public  utility  franchises  and  regulate  the  exercise 
thereof. 

(c)  To  make  local  public  improvements  and  to  acquire,  by  con- 
demnation or  otherwise,  property  within  its  corporate  limits  necessary 
for  such  improvements;  and  also  to  acquire  an  excess  over  that  needed 
for  any  such  improvement,  and  to  sell  or  lease  such  excess  property 
with  restrictions,  in  order  to  protect  and  preserve  the  improvement. 

(d)  To  issue  and  sell  bonds  on  the  security  of  any  such  excess 
property,  or  of  any  public  utility  owned  by  the  city,  or  of  the  revenues 
thereof,  or  of  both,  including  in  the  case  of  a  public  utility,  if  deemed 
desirable  by  the  city,  a  franchise  stating  the  terms  upon  which,  in  case 
of  foreclosure,  the  purchaser  may  operate  such  utility. 

(e)  To  organize  and  administer  public  schools  and  libraries,  sub- 
ject to  the  general  laws  establishing  a  standard  of  education  for  the 
state. 

(f)  To  adopt  and  enforce  within  their  limits  local  police,  sanitary 
and  other  similar  regulations  not  in  conflict  with  general  laws. 

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  act  the  council  shall  have 
authority  to  determine  by  whom  and  in  what  manner  the  powers  granted 
by  this  section  shall  be  exercised. 


11 


1  Sec.  2.    Composition  of  Council  and  Vacancies.  The 

2  council  shall  consist  of  members,2  who  shall  be 

3  elected  on  a  general  ticket  from  the  city  at  large  and  shall 

4  serve  for  a  term  of  four  years  from  days  after  their 

5  election,  and  shall  be  subject  to  recall  as  hereinafter  pro- 

6  vided.    Vacancies  in  the  council,  except  as  otherwise  pro- 

7  vided  herein,  shall  be  filled  for  the  unexpired  term  by  a  ma- 

8  jority  vote  of  the  remaining  members.3 

9  Sec.  3.    Powers  of  Council,    The  council  shall  be  the 

10  judge  of  the  election  and  qualification  of  its  own  members, 

11  subject  to  review  by  the  courts.   Any  member  of  council  who 

12  shall  have  been  convicted  of  a  crime  while  in  office  shall 

13  thereby  forfeit  his  office.    Neither  the  council  nor  any  of  its 

14  committees  or  members  shall  dictate  the  appointment  of  any 

15  person  to  office  or  employment  by  the  .  city  manager,  or  in 

16  any  manner  interfere  with  the  city  manager  or  prevent  him 

17  from  exercising  his  own  judgment  in  the  appointment  of 

18  officers  and  employes  in  the  administrative  service.  Except 

19  for  the  purpose  of  inquiry  the  council  and  its  members  shall 

20  deal  with  the  administrative  service  solely  through  the  city 

21  manager,  and  neither  the  council  nor  any  member  thereof 

22  shall  give  orders  to  any  of  the  subordinates  of  the  city  man- 

23  ager,  either  publicly  or  privately.  Any  such  dictation,  pre- 
524  vention,  orders,  or  other  interference  on  the  part  of  a  mem- 

Note  2.  At  least  5  and  not  more  than  25,  the  precise  number  being 
determined  by  the  size  of  the  city.  If  more  than  five  are  to  be  elected 
at  one  time,  provision  must  be  made  to  have  the  members  after  the 
first  election  chosen  in  rotation.  For  example,  a  council  of  15  with  a 
six-year  term,  5  to  be  elected  every  two  years.  In  cities  of  more  than 
100,000  the  city  should  be  divided  into  large  districts,  and  the  size  of 
the  district  should  never  exceed  50,000  population,  except  in  cities  over 
1,000,000.  The  purpose  of  this  limitation  is  to  keep  the  size  of  the  dis- 
trict down  to  such  a  point  that  genuinely  free  competition  for  public 
office  will  prevail,  the  expense  of  a  thorough  canvass  being  not  too  great 
for  an  independent  candidate  who  may  lack  the  support  of  a  permanent 
political  machine. 

If  proportional  representation  is  used,  it  should  be  so  arranged  that 
the  quota  needed  to  elect  a  candidate  shall  not  exceed  10,000  votes. 

Note  3.  In  determining  whether  a  salary  shall  be  paid,  and  if  so 
how  much,  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  duties  of  the  council  are 
supervisory;  it  being  the  object  of  this  charter  to  place  the  adminis- 
trative affairs  of  the  city  in  the  hands  of  the  city  manager. 

12 


1  ber  of  council  with  the  administration  of  the  city  shall  be 

2  deemed  to  be  a  misdemeanor,  and  upon  conviction  any  mem- 

3  ber  so  convicted  shall  be  subject  to  a  fine  not  exceeding 

4  $  or  imprisonment  for  a  term  not  exceeding 

5  months,  or  both,  and  to  removal  from  office  in  the  discretion 

6  of  the  court. 

7  Sec.  4.    Election  by  Councils.    Rules.    Quorum.  The 

8  council  shall  elect  one  of  its  members  as  chairman,  who  shall 

9  be  entitled  mayor  ;  also  a  city  manager,  a  clerk  and  a  civil 

10  service  board,  but  no  member  of  the  council  shall  be  chosen 

11  as  manager,  or  as  a  member  of  the  civil  service  commission. 

12  The  council  may  determine  its  own  rules  of  procedure,  may 

13  punish  its  own  members  for  misconduct  and  may  compel  at- 

14  tendance  of  members.    A  majority  of  all  the  members  of  the 

15  council  shall  constitute  a  quorum  to'  do  business,  but  a 

16  smaller  number  may  adjourn  from  time  to  time. 

17  Sec.  5.    Organization  and  Procedure  of  Council.  At 

18  8  o'clock  p.  m.  on  the  first  Monday  in  (month)  following 

19  a  regular  municipal  election,  the  council  shall  meet  at  the 

20  usual  place  for  holding  meetings  at  which  time  the  newly 

21  elected  councilmen  shall  assume  the  duties  of  their  office. 

22  Thereafter  the  council  shall  meet  at  such  time  and  place  as 

23  may  be  prescribed  by  ordinance.    The  meetings  of  the  coun- 

24  cil  and  all  sessions  of  committees  of  the  council  shall  be 

25  public.     The   council    shall   act   only   by    ordinance  or 

26  resolution;  and  al]  ordinances  and  resolutions,  except  ordi- 

27  nances  making  appropriations,  shall  be  confined  to  one  sub- 

28  ject  which  shall  be  clearly  expressed  in  the  title.    The  ordi- 

29  nances  making  appropriations  shall  be  confined  to  the  sub- 

30  ject  of  appropriations.    No  ordinance  shall  be  passed  until 

31  it  has  been  read  on  two  separate  days  or  the  requirement 

32  of  readings  on  two  separate  days  has  been  dispensed  with 

33  by  a  four-fifths  vote  of  the  members  of  the  council.  The 

34  final  reading  shall  be  in  full,  unless  the  measure  shall  have 

35  been  printed  and  a  copy  thereof  furnished  to  each  mem- 

36  ber  prior  to  such  reading.     The  ayes  and  noes  shall  be 

13 


1  taken  upon  the  passage  of  all  ordinances  or  resolutions  and 

2  entered  upon  the  journal  of  the  proceedings  of  the  council, 

3  and  every  ordinance  or  resolution  shall  require  on  final  pas- 

4  sage  the  affirmative  vote  of  a  majority  of  all  the  members. 

5  No  member  shall  be  excused  from  voting  except  on  matters 

6  involving  the  consideration  of  his  own  official  conduct,  or 

7  where  his  financial  interests  are  involved.    Provision  shall 

8  be  made  for  the  printing  and  publication  in  full  of  every 

9  ordinance  within  ten  days  after  its  final  passage. 

10  Sec.  6.    Powers  of  Mayor.    The  mayor  shall  preside  at 

11  meetings  of  the  council  and  perform  such  other  duties  con- 

12  sistent  with  his  office  as  may  be  imposed  by  the  council.  He 

13  shall  be  recognized  as  the  official  head  of  the  city  for  all 

14  ceremonial  purposes,  by  the  courts  for  the  purpose  of  serv- 

15  ing  civil  processes,  and  by  the  governor  for  military  pur- 

16  poses.    In  time  of  public  danger  or  emergency  he  may,  with 

17  the  consent  of  the  council,  take  command  of  the  police  and 

18  maintain  order  and  enforce  the  laws.    During  his  absence  or 

19  disability  his  duties  shall  be  performed  by  another  member 

20  appointed  by  the  council. 

NOMINATIONS  AND  ELECTIONS 

21  Sec.  7.    Municipal  Elections.   A  municipal  election  shall 

22  be  held  on  the   day  of   of  the   year  4  and  of 

23  every  second  year  thereafter,  which  shall  be  known  as  the 

24  regular  municipal  election.     All  other  municipal  elections 

25  that  may  be  held  shall  be  known  as  special  municipal  elec- 

26  tions. 

27  Sec.  8.    Nomination  by  Petition,    The  mode  of  nomina- 

28  tion  of  all  elective  officers  provided  for  by  this  charter  shall 

29  be  by  petition.    The  name  of  any  elector  of  the  city  shall  be 

30  printed  upon  the  ballot,  whenever  a  petition  as  hereinafter 

Note  4.  Municipal  elections  may  be  held  in  the  odd  years  when 
there  is  no  state  or  national  election.  If  held  in  the  same  year,  they 
should  be  separated  from  the  latter  by  at  least  thirty,  and  preferably 
sixty,  days. 


14 


1  prescribed  shall  have  been  filed  in  his  behalf  with  the  election 

2  authorities.    Such  petition  shall  be  signed  by  at  least  

3  electors.5 

4  No  elector  shall  sign  petitions  for  more  candidates  than 

5  the  number  of  places  of  that  particular  designation  to  be 

6  filled  at  the  election  and  should  he  do  so  his  signature  shall 

7  be  void  as  to  the  petition  or  petitions  last  filed.6 

8  Sec.  9.    Signatures  to  and  Forms  of  Nomination  Papers. 

9  The  signatures  to  the  nomination  petition  need  not  all  be 

10  appended  to  one  paper,  but  to  each  separate  paper  there 

11  shall  be  attached  an  affidavit  of  the  circulator  thereof,  stat- 
ic ing  the  number  of  signers  of  such  paper  and  that  each 

13  signature  appended  thereto  was  made  in  his  presence  and  is 

14  the  genuine  signature  of  the  person  whose  name  it  purports 

15  to  be.    With  each  signature  shall  be  stated  the  place  of  resi- 

16  dence  of  the  signer,  giving  the  street  and  number  or  other 

17  description  sufficient  to  identify  the  same.    The  form  of  the 

18  nomination  petition  shall  be  substantially  as  follows: 

19  We,  the  undersigned,  electors  of  the  city  of .  .  .  hereby 

20  nominate  ,  whose  residence  is  ,  for  the  office 

21  of  ,  to  be  voted  for  at  the  election  to  be  held  in  the 

22  city  of  ,  on  the   day  of  ,  19.  .  ;  and 

23  we  individually  certify  that  we  are  qualified  to  vote  for  a 

24  candidate  for  the  above  office  and  that  we  have,  not  signed 

25  more  nomination  petitions  of  candidates  for  this  office  than 

26  there  are  persons  to  be  elected  thereto. 

27  Name.  .    Street  and  Number  

28  (Space  for  signatures.) 

29   ,  being  duly  sworn,  deposes  and  says  that  he  is 

30  the  circulator  of  the  foregoing  petition  paper  containing 

31   signatures,  and  that  the  signatures  appended  thereto 

Note  5.  From  twenty-five  to  two  hundred,  the  particular  number 
depending  on  the  size  of  the  city  adopting  the  charter. 

Note  6.  If  proportional  representation  is  used,  he  shall  sign  a 
petition  for  but  one  candidate. 


15 


1  were  made  in  his  presence  and  are  the  signatures  of  the  per- 

%  sons  whose  names  they  purport  to  be. 

3  (Signed)   

4  Subscribed  and  sworn  to  before  me  this  day  of 

5   ,19.. 

6   Justice  of  the  Peace  (or  Notary  Public). 

7  This  petition,  if  found  insufficient  by  the  election  au- 

8  thorities,  shall  be  returned  to  at  No  Street. 

9  Sec.  10.    Filmg  Nomination  Papers.    All  nomination 

10  papers  comprising  a  petition  shall  be  assembled  and  filed 

11  with  the  election  authorities,  as  one  instrument,  not  earlier 

12  than  thirty  nor  later  than  fifteen  days  before  the  election. 

13  Any  person  nominated  under  this  charter  shall  file  with  the 

14  election  authorities  his  written  acceptance  of  said  nomina- 

15  tion  not  later  than  twenty  days  before  the  day  of  the  elec- 

16  tion,  and  in  the  absence  of  such  acceptance  his  name  shall 

17  not  appear  on  the  ballot. 

ELECTIONS. 

[Regulation  of  Election.  The  council  shall  make  all  needful  rules 
and  regulations  for  conducting  elections,  for  preventing  fraud  in  elec- 
tions, and  for  the  recount  of  ballots  in  case  of  doubt  or  fraud,  unless 
provided  for  by  general  law. 

[After  the  nomination  of  candidates  by  petition  in  pursuance  of  the 
foregoing  sections,  these  candidates  may  be  chosen  in  several  ways;  e.  g., 
by  proportional  representation;  by  preferential  ballot;  or  at  a  primary 
election  to  be  followed  (whenever  necessary)  by  a  general  election.  The 
members  of  the  committee  on  municipal  program  had  different  views 
as  to  which  of  these  different  methods  of  selection  were  most  desirable, 
the  majority  of  the  committee  believing  that  either  proportional  repre- 
sentation or  the  preferential  ballot  might  be  preferable  to  the  primary 
system  which,  in  most  cases,  involves  the  expense  and  labor  of  a  double 
election. 

[That  charter  draftsmen  may  have  the  benefit  of  the  committee's 
suggestions,  alternative  drafts  for  proportional  representation  and 
preferential  voting  have  been  prepared  and  inserted  for  their  guidance 
as  Appendix  A  and  Appendix  B,  respectively.  The  committee  feels  that 
attention  should  also  be  directed  to  the  form  of  election  originally  pro- 
vided for  in  the  charter  of  Berkeley,  Cal.,  and  now  followed  in  San  Fran- 
cisco, Los  Angeles  and  other  California  cities,  where  provision  is  made 
that  any  candidate  for  an  office  at  the  preliminary  election  receiving  a 
majority  of  all  the  votes  cast  should  be  forthwith  declared  elected,  a 
second  election  being  held  to  select  candidates  for  those  offices  only 
where  no  one  candidate  therefor  received  a  majority  vote. 

[The  essential  provsions  of  the  San  Francisco  charter  upon  this 
subject,  adopted  November,  1915,  are  as  follows: 


16 


[Votes  Necessary  to  Elect.  In  case  there  is  but  one  person  to  be 
elected  to  an  office,  the  candidate  receiving  a  majority  of  the  votes  cast 
at  the  primary  election  for  all  the  candidates  for  that  office  shall  be 
declared  elected;  in  case  there  are  two  or  more  persons  to  be  elected  to 
an  office,  then  those  candidates  equal  in  number  to  the  number  to  be 
elected,  who  receive  the  highest  number  of  votes  for  such  office  shall 
be  declared  elected;  Provided,  however,  that  no  person  shall  be  declared 
elected  to  any  such  office  at  such  primary  election  unless  the  number 
of  votes  received  by  him  shall  be  greater  than  one-half  the  number  of 
ballots  cast  at  such  election. 

[General  Election.  The  vacancy  or  vacancies  in  any  office  to  which 
the  required  number  of  persons  have  not  been  elected  at  the  primary 
election  shall  be  filled  at  the  general  election.  The  candidates  not  elected 
at  such  primary  election,  equal  in  number  to  twice  the  number  to  be 
elected  to  any  given  office  (or  less,  if  so  there  be),  who  receives  the 
highest  number  of  votes  for  the  respective  offices  at  such  first  election, 
shall  be  the  only  candidates  at  such  general  election;  Provided,  that  if 
there  be  any  person  who,  under  the  provisions  of  this  sub-division,  would 
have  been  entitled  to  become  a  candidate  for  any  office  except  for  the 
fact  that  some  other  candidate  received  an  equal  number  of  votes  there- 
for, then  all  such  persons  receiving  such  equal  number  of  votes  shall 
likewise  become  candidates  for  such  office.  The  candidates  equal  in 
number  to  the  persons  to  be  elected  who  shall  receive  the  highest  num- 
ber of  votes  at  such  general  election  shall  be  declared  elected  to  such 
office.]  7 

Note  7.  To  eliminate  the  evils  of  ward  representation  it  has  been 
provided  in  this  model  charter  that  elections  should  be  at  large  except 
in  cities  of  100,000  or  more.  Elections  at  large  have,  however,  this  dis- 
advantage that  they  do  not  insure  minority  representation  and  that  the 
watchful  care  exercised  over  a  city  government  by  those  who  are  in 
opposition  may  be  entirely  absent.  In  order  to  remedy  this  defect,  a 
system  of  proportional  representation  may  be  introduced.  It  is  most 
effective  if  five  or  more  councilmen  are  to  be  selected  at  a  single 
election. 

There  are  two  well-proved  methods  by  which  the  system  of  pro- 
portional representation  can  be  applied.  One  is  the  List  system,  in  use 
in  Belgium,  Sweden,  Switzerland  and  elsewhere;  the  other,  the  Hare 
system,  in  use  in  Tasmania  and  South  Africa  and  incorporated  for 
Irish  parliamentary  elections  in  the  Parliament  of  Ireland  Act  recently 
passed.  The  Hare  system  has  also  been  recently  adopted  for  the  elec- 
tion of  the  city  council  of  Ashtabula,  Ohio.  Of  these  two  systems  the 
List  is  the  simpler  so  far  as  the  count  is  concerned,  but  to  the  voter 
neither  offers  any  difficulties.  The  Hare  system  makes  it  possible  for 
whatever  grouping  is  done  to  be  done  by  means  of  the  marking  of  the 
ballots,  and  gives  the  voter  more  perfect  freedom  in  the  expression  of  his 
will  than  does  the  List.  It,  therefore,  more  effectively  discourages  the 
retention  of  national  party  lines  in  city  government.  For  these  reasons 
the  Hare  system  is  better  fitted  for  the  choice  of  city  councils  in 
America. 

Where  proportional  representation  is  used  for  the  election  of  the 
council  the  members  should  be  chosen  either  at  large  or  in  districts 
electing  not  fewer  than  five  members.  If  there  are  districts,  it  is  not 
necessary  that  they  should  all  elect  the  same  number  of  members.  When 
proportional  representation  is  not  desired,  the  preferential  ballot  may 
be  used.    Provisions  for  this  purpose  will  be  found  in  Appendix  B. 

Model  provisions  for  the  carrying  out  of  the  Hare  system  are  given 
in  Appendix  A. 


17 


THE  RECALL. 

1  Sec.  11.    Procedure  for  Filing  Recall  Petition.  Any 

2  officer  or  officers  holding  an  elective  office  provided  for  in  this 

3  charter  may  be  recalled  and  removed  therefrom  by  the  elec- 

4  tors  of  the  city  as  herein  provided.9 

5  Any  elector  of  the  city  may  make  and  file  with  the  city 

6  clerk  an  affidavit  containing  the  name  or  names  of  the  officer 

7  or  officers  whose  removal  is  sought  and  a  statement  of  the 

8  grounds  for  removal.    The  clerk  shall  thereupon  deliver  to 

9  the  elector  making  such  affidavit  copies  of  petition  blanks 

10  for  such  removal,  printed  forms  of  which  he  shall  keep  on 

11  hand.     Such  blanks  shall  be  issued  by  the  clerk  with  his 

12  signature  and  official  seal  thereto  attached;  they  shall  be 

13  dated  and  addressed  to  the  council,  shall  contain  the  name 

14  of  the  person  to  whom  issued,  the  number  of  blanks  so  is- 

15  sued,  the  name  of  the  person  or  persons  whose  removal  is 

16  sought  and  the  office  from  which  such  removal  is  sought. 

17  A  copy  of  the  petition  shall  be  entered  in  a  record  book 

18  to  be  kept  in  the  office  of  the  clerk.    The  recall  petition, 

19  to  be  effective,  must  be  returned  and  filed  with  the  clerk 

20  within  thirty  days  after  the  filing  of  the  affidavit.    The  peti- 

21  tion  before  being  returned  and  filed  shall  be  signed  by  elec- 

22  tors  of  the  city  to  the  number  of  at  least  fifteen  per  cent 

23  of  the  number  of  electors  who  cast  their  votes  at  the  last 

24  preceding  regular  municipal  election,  and  to  every  such 

25  signature  shall  be  added  the  place  of  residence  of  the  signer, 

26  giving  the  street  and  number  or  other  description  sufficient 

27  to  identify  the  place.    Such  signatures  need  not  all  be  on 

28  one  paper,  but  the  circulator  of  every  such  paper  shall  make 

29  an  affidavit  that  each  signature  appended  to  the  paper  is  the 

30  genuine  signature  of  the  person  whose  name  it  purports  to 

Note  8.  The  recall  sections  were  inserted  by  a  majority  vote  of 
the  committee.  They  are  not  applicable  in  this  form  if  proportional  rep- 
resentation is  adopted. 

Note  9.  Where  a  large  city  is  divided  into  districts  for  electoral 
purposes  the  word  "district"  should  be  substituted  for  "city"  in  these 
sections. 


18 


1  be.    All  such  recall  papers  shall  be  filed  as  one  instrument. 

2  with  the  endorsements  thereon  of  the  names  and  addresses 

3  of  thr  ee  per  sons  designated  as  filing -the  same. 

4  Sec.  12.    Examination  and  Amendment  of  Recall  Peti- 

5  Hons.    Within  ten  days  after  the  filing  of  the  petition  the 

6  clerk  shall  ascertain  whether  or  not  the  petition  is  signed 

7  by  the  requisite  number  of  electors  and  shall  attach  thereto 

8  his  certificate  showing  the  result  of  such  examination.  If 

9  his  certificate  shows  the  petition  to  be  insufficient,  he  shall 

10  forthwith  so  notify  in  writing  one  or  more  of  the  persons 

11  designated  on  the  petition  as  filing  the  same  ;  and  the  peti- 

12  tion  may  be  amended  at  any  time  within  ten  days,  after 

13  the  giving  of  said  notice,  by  the  filing  of  a  supplementary 

14  petition  upon  additional  petition  papers,   issued,  signed 

15  and  filed  as  provided  herein  for  the  original  petition.  The 

16  clerk  shall,  within  ten  days  after  such  amendment,  make 

17  like  examination  of  the  amended  petition,  and  attach  thereto 

18  his  certificate  of  the  result.    If  then  found  to  be  insufficient, 

19  or  if  no  amendment  was  made,  he  shall  file  the  petition  in  his 

20  office  and  shall  notify  each  of  the  persons  designated  thereon 

21  as  filing  it  of  that  fact.    The  final  finding  of  the  insufficiency 

22  of  a  petition  shall  not  prejudice  the  filing  of  a  new  petition 

23  for  the  same  purpose. 

24  Sec.  13.    Calling  of  Recall  Election.    If  the  petition 

25  or  amended  petition  shall  be  certified  by  the  clerk  to  be 

26  sufficient  he  shall  submit  the  same  with  his  certificate  to 

27  the  council  at  its  next  meeting  and  shall  notify  the  officer 

28  or  officers  whose  removal  is  sought  of  such  action.  The 

29  council  shall  thereupon,  within  ten  days  of  the  receipt  of  the 

30  clerk's  certificate,  order  an  election  to  be  held  not  less  than 
31-  thirty  nor  more  than  forty-five  days  thereafter.  Provided, 

32  that  if  any  other  municipal  election  is  to  occur  within  sixt}' 

33  days  after  the  receipt  of  said  certificate,  the  council  may  in 
$4  its  discretion  provide  for  the  holding  of  the  removal  election 
35  on  the  date  of  such  other  municipal  election. 

19 


1  Sec.  14.    Form  of  Ballot  to  Recall  Officer.    Unless  the 

2  officer  or  officers  whose  removal  is  sought  shall  have  resigned 

3  within  ten  days  after  the  receipt  by  the  council  of  the 

4  clerk's  certificate  the  form  of  the  ballot  at  such  election  shall 

5  be  as  near  as  may  be:  "Shall  A  be  recalled?    Shall  B  be  re- 

6  called?"  etc.,  the  name  of  the  officer  or  officers  whose  recall 

7  is  sought  being  inserted  in  place  of  A,  B,  etc.,  and  the  ballot 

8  shall  also  contain  the  names  of  the  candidates  to  be  elected 

9  in  place  of  the  men  recalled,  as  follows:  "Candidates  for  the 

10  place  of  A,  if  recalled ;  candidates  for  the  place  of  B,  if  re- 

11  called,"  etc.,  but  the  men  whose  recall  is  sought  shall  not 

12  themselves  be  candidates  upon  such  ballot. 

13  In  case  a  majority  of  those  voting  for  and  against  the 

14  recall  of  any  official  shall  vote  in  favor  of  recalling  such 

15  official  he  shall  be  thereby  removed,  and  in  that  event  the 

16  candidate  who  receives  the  highest  number  of  votes  for  his 

17  place  shall  be  elected  thereto  for  the  balance  of  the  unex- 

18  pired  term. 

19  If  the  officer  or  officers  sought  to  be  removed  shall  have 

20  resigned  within  ten  days  after  the  receipt  by  the  council  of 

21  the  clerk's  certificate  referred  to  in  section  13  hereof,  the 

22  form  of  ballot  at  the  election  shall  be  the  same,  as  nearly  as 

23  may  be,  as  the  form  in  use  at  a  regular  municipal  election. 

24  Sec.  15.    Procedure  on  Refusal  of  Council.    Should  the 

25  council  fail  or  refuse  to  order  an  election  as  herein  pro- 

26  vided  within  the  time  required,  such  election  may  be  ordered 

27  by  any  court  of  general  jurisdiction  in  the  county  in  which 

28  said  city  is  situated. 


20 


/ 


THE  INITIATIVE.10 

1  Sec.  16.    Power  to  Initiate  Ordinances.     The  people 

2  shall  have  power  at  their  option  to  propose  ordinances,  in- 
8  eluding  ordinances  granting  franchises  or  privileges,  and 

4  other  measures  and  to  adopt  the  same  at  the  polls,  such 

5  power  being  known  as  the  initiative.    A  petition,  meeting 

6  the  requirements  hereinafter  provided  and  requesting  the 

7  council  to  pass  an  ordinance,  resolution,  order  or  vote  (all 

8  of  these  four  terms  being  hereinafter  included  in  the  term 

9  "measure")  therein  set  forth  or  designated,  shall  be  termed 

10  an  initiative  petition  and  shall  be  acted  upon  as  hereinafter 

11  provided. 

12  Sec.  17.    Preparation  of  Initiative  Petitions.  Signa- 

13  tures  to  initiative  petitions  need  not.  all  be  on  one  paper, 

14  but  the  circulator  of  every  such  paper  shall  make  an  affi- 

15  davit  that  each  signature  appended  to  the  paper  is  the 

16  genuine  signature  of  the  person  whose  name  it  purports  to 

17  be.    With  each  signature  shall  be  stated  the  place  of  resi- 

18  dence  of  the  signer,  giving  the  street  and  number  or  other 

19  description  sufficient  to  identify  the  place.    All  such  papers 

20  pertaining  to  any  one  measure  shall  have  written  or  printed 

21  thereon  the  names  and  addresses  of  at  least  five  electors  who 

22  shall  be  officially  regarded  as  filing  the  petition,  and  shall 

23  constitute  a  committee  of  the  petitioners  for  the  purposes 

24  hereinafter  named.    All  such  papers  shall  be  filed  in  the 

25  office  of  the  city  clerk  as  one  instrument.    Attached  to  every 

26  such  instrument  shall  be  a  certificate  signed  by  the  commit- 

27  tee  of  petitioners  or  a  majority  of  them  stating  whether  the 

28  petition  is  intended  to  be  a  "Fifteen  Per  Cent  Petition"  or  a 

29  "Twenty-five  Per  Cent  Petition." 

30  Sec.  18.    Filing  of  Petitions.    Within  ten  days  after  the 

31  filing  of  the  petition  the  clerk  shall  ascertain  by  examina- 

32  tion  the  number  of  electors  whose  signatures  are  appended 

Note  10.    The  initiative  sections  were  inserted  by  a  majority  vote 
of  the  committee. 


21 


1  thereto  and  whether  this  number  is  at  least  fifteen  per  cent 

2  or  twenty-five  per  cent,  as  the  case  may  be,  of  the  total 

3  number  of  electors  who  cast  their  votes  at  the  last  preced- 

4  ing  regular  municipal  election,  and  he  shall  attach  to  said 

5  petition  his  certificate  showing  the  result  of  said  exami- 

6  nation.    If,  by  the  clerk's  certificate,  of  which  notice  in 

7  writing  shall  be  given  to  one  or  more  of  the  persons  desig- 

8  nated,  the  petition  is  shown  to  be  insufficient  it  may  be 

9  amended  within  ten  days  from  the  date  of  said  certificate  by 

10  filing  supplementary  petition  papers  with  additional  signa- 

1 1  tures.    The  clerk  shall  within  ten  days  after  such  amend- 

12  ment  make  like  examination  of  the  amended  petition,  and  if 

13  his  certificate  shall  show  the  same  to  be  insufficient,  the  clerk 

14  shall  file  the  petition  in  his  office  and  shall  notify  each  mem- 

15  ber  of  the  committee  of  that  fact.    The  final  finding  of  the 

16  insufficiency  of  a  petition  shall  not  prejudice  the  filing  of  a 

17  new  petition  for  the  same  purpose. 

18  Sec.  19.    Submission  of  Petition  to  Council.     If  the 

19  petition  shall  be  found  to  be  sufficient,  the  clerk  shall  so 

20  certify  and  submit  the  proposed  measure  to  the  council  at 

21  its  next  meeting,  and  the  council  shall  at  once  read  and 

22  refer  the  same  to  an  appropriate  committee,  which  may  be 

23  a  committee  of  the  whole.   Provision  shall  be  made  for  public 

24  hearings  upon  the  proposed  measure  before  the  committee  to 

25  which  it  is  referred.    Thereafter  the  committee  shall  report 

26  the  proposed  measure  to  the  council,  with  its  recommenda- 

27  tion  thereon,  not  later  than  sixty  days  after  the  date  upon 

28  which  such  measure  was  submitted  to  the  council  by  the 

29  clerk.    Upon  receiving  the  proposed  measure  from  the  com- 

30  mittee  the  council  shall  at  once  proceed  to  consider  it  and 

31  shall  take  final  action  thereon  within  thirty  days  from  the 

32  date  of  such  committee  report. 

33  Sec.  20.    Election  on  Initiated  Measures.   If  the  council 

34  shall  fail  to  pass  the  proposed  measure,  or  shall  pass  it  in  a 

35  form  different  from  that  set  forth  in  the  petition,  then  if  the 

36  petition  was  a  "twenty-five  per  cent  petition"  the  proposed 

22 


1  measure  shall  be  submitted  by  the  council  to  the  vote  of  the 

2  electors  at  the  next  election  occurring  not  less  than  thirty 

3  days  after  the  date  of  the  final  action  by  the  council,  and  if 

4  no  election  is  to  be  held  within  six  months  from  such  date, 

5  then  the  council  shall  call  a  special  election  to  be  held  not 

6  less  than  thirty  nor  more  than  forty-five  days  from  such 

7  date.    But  if  the  petition  was  a  "fifteen  per  cent  petition" 

8  the  proposed  measure  shall  be  submitted  as  in  the  case  of  a 

9  "twenty-five  per  cent  petition,"  except  that  no  special  elec- 

10  tion  shall  be  called  unless  within  thirty  days  after  the  final 

11  action  by  the  council  on  the  proposed  measure  a  supple- 

12  mental  petition  shall  be  filed  with  the  clerk  signed  by  a  suf- 

13  ficient  number  of  additional  electors  asking  for  the  submis- 

14  sion  of  the  proposed  measure  so  that  the  original  petition 

15  when  combined  with  such  supplementary  petition  shall  be- 

16  come  a  "twenty-five  per  cent  petition."    In  case  such  sup- 

17  plementary  petition  is  filed  the  council  shall  call  a  special 

18  election  to  be  held  not  less  than  thirty  nor  more  than  forty- 

19  five  days  after  the  receipt  of  the  clerk's  certificate  that  a 

20  sufficient  supplementary  petition  has  been  filed.  The  suf- 
£1  ficiency  of  any  such  supplementary  petition  shall  be  deter- 

22  mined,  and  it  may  be  amended,  in  the  manner  provided  for 

23  original  petitions.    When  submitted  the  measure  shall  be 

24  either  in  its  original  form,  or  with  any  proposed  change  or 

25  addition  which  was  presented  in  writing  either  at  the  public 

26  hearing  before  the  committee  to  which  such  proposed  meas- 

27  ure  was  referred,  or  during  the  consideration  thereof  by  the 

28  council;  and  said  committee  of  petitioners  shall  certify  to 

29  the  clerk  the  requirement  of  submission  and  the  proposed 

30  measure  in  the  form  desired,  within  ten  days  after  the  date 

31  of  final  action  on  such  measure  by  the  council.    Upon  receipt 

32  of  the  certificate  and  certified  copy  of  such  measure,  the 

33  clerk  shall  certify  the  fact  to  the  council  at  its  next  meeting 

34  and  such  measure  shall  be  submitted  by  the  council  to  the 

35  vote  of  the  electors  in  a  regular  or  special  municipal  election 

36  as  hereinbefore  provided. 

23 


1  Sec.  21.    Initiative  Ballots.    The  ballots  used  when  vot- 

2  ing  upon  any  such  proposed  measure  shall  state  the  substance 

3  thereof,  and  below  it  the  two  propositions  "For  the  measure" 
4s  and  "Against  the  measure."  Immediately  at  the  right  of  each 

5  proposition  there  shall  be  a  square  in  which  by  making  a 

6  cross  (X)  the  voter  may  vote  for  or  against  the  proposed 

7  measure.    If  a  majority  of  the  electors  voting  on  any  such 

8  measure  shall  vote  in  favor  thereof,  it  shall  thereupon  be- 

9  come  an  ordinance,  resolution,  order  or  vote  of  the  city  as 

10  the  case  may  be. 

11  The  following  shall  be  the  form  of  the  ballot: 

TITLE  OF  MEASURE 
With  general  statement  of  substance  thereof. 
For  the  Measure  | 
Against  the  Measure  | 

12  Sec.  22.    Number  of  Measures  to  be  Initiated.  Any 

13  number  of  proposed  measures  may  be  voted  upon  at  the 
14)    same  election  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this 

15  charter. 

THE  REFERENDUM.11 

16  Sec.  23.    Power  of  Referendum.    The  people  shall  have 

17  power  at  their  option  to  approve  or  reject  at  the  polls  any 

18  measure  passed  by  the  council  or  submitted  by  the  council  to 

19  a  vote  of  the  electors,  such  power  being  known  as  the  refer- 

20  endum,  which  power  shall  be  invoked  and  exercised  as  herein 

21  provided.    Measures  submitted  to  the  council  by  initiative 

22  petition  and  passed  by  the  council  without  change,  or  passed 

23  in  an  amended  form  and  not  required  by  the  committee  of 

24  the  petitioners  to  be  submitted  to  a  vote  of  the  electors, 

25  shall  be  subject  to  the  referendum  in  the  same  manner  as 

26  other  measures. 

27  Sec.  24.    Limitations  on  Enforcement  of  Ordinances. 

28  No  measure  shall  go  into  effect  until  thirty  days  after  its 

29  passage  unless  it  be  declared  an  emergency  measure  on  the 

Note  11.   The  referendum  sections  were  inserted  by  a  majority  vote 
of  the  committee. 

24 


1  ground  of  urgent  public  need  for  the  preservation  of  peace, 

2  health,  safety  or  property,  the  facts  showing  such  urgency 

3  and  need  being  specifically  stated  in  the  measure  itself  and 

4  the  measure  being  passed  by  a  vote  of  not  less  than  four- 

5  fifths  of  the  members  of  the  council.    But  no  measure  grant- 

6  ing  or  amending  any  public  utility  or  amending  or  repealing 

7  any  measure  adopted  by  the  people  at  the  polls  or  by  the 

8  council  in  compliance  with  an  initiative  petition,  shall  be  re- 

9  garded  as  an  emergency  measure. 

10  Sec.  25.    Referendum  Petition.    If  within  thirty  days 

11  after  the  final  passage  of  any  measure  by  the  council  a  peti- 

12  tion  signed  by  electors  of  the  city  to  the  number  of  at  least 

13  10  per  cent  of  the  number  of  electors  who  cast  their  votes 
14*  at  the  last  preceding  regular  municipal  election,  be  filed 

15  with  the  city  clerk  requesting  that  any  such  measure,  or  any 

16  part  thereof,  be  repealed  or  be  submitted  to  a  vote  of  the 

17  electors,  it  shall  not,  except  in  the  case  of  an  emergency 

18  measure,  become  operative  until  the  steps  indicated  herein 

19  have  been  taken. 

20  Sec.    26.    Signatures    to    Petition.      The  signatures 

21  thereto  need  not  all  be  on  one  paper,  but  the  circulator  of 

22  every  such  paper  shall  make  an  affidavit  that  each  signature 

23  appended  thereto  is  the  genuine  signature  of  the  person  whose 

24  name  it  purports  to  be.    With  each  signature  shall  be  stated 

25  the  place  of  residence  of  the  signer,  giving  the  street  and 

26  number  or  other  description  sufficient  to  identify  the  place. 

27  All  such  papers  shall  be  filed  in  the  office  of  the  city  clerk 

28  as  one  instrument.    A  referendum  petition  need  not  contain 

29  the  text  of  the  measure  designated  therein  and  of  which  the 

30  repeal  is  sought. 

31  Sec.  27.    Certification  of  Petition.    Within  ten  days 

32  after  the  filing  of  the  petition  the  clerk  shall  ascertain 

33  whether  or  not  the  petition  is  signed  by  the  electors  of  the 

34  city  to  the  number  of  at  least  10  per  cent  of  the  number  of 

35  electors  who  cast  their  votes  at  the  last  preceding  regular 

25 


1  municipal  election  and  he  shall  attach  to  such  petition  his 

2  certificate  showing  the  result  of  such  examination.  If  by  the 

3  clerk's  certificate  the  petition  is  shown  to  be  insufficient,  it 

4  may  be  amended  within  ten  days  from  the  date  of  said  cer- 

5  tificate  by  the  filing  of  supplementary  petition  papers  with 

6  additional  signatures.    The  clerk  shall  within  ten  days  after 

7  such  amendment  make  like  examination  of  the  amended  peti- 

8  tion  and  certify  the  result  thereof. 

9  Sec.   28.    Referendum  Election.     If  the  petition  be 

10  found  sufficient,  the  council  shall  proceed  to  reconsider  such 

11  measure  or  such  part  thereof  as  the  petition  shall  specify. 

12  If  upon  such  reconsideration  such  measure,  or  such  part 

13  thereof,  be  not  repealed  or  amended  as  demanded  in  the 

14  petition,  the  council  shall  provide  for  submitting  the  same, 

15  by  the  method  herein  provided,  to  a  vote  of  the  elec- 

16  tors  at  the  next  municipal  election  occurring  not  less  than 

17  thirty  days  after  the  receipt  by  the  council  of  the  clerk's 

18  certificate,  and  such  measure,  or  such  part  thereof,  shall 

19  thereupon  be  suspended  from  going  into  effect  until  said 

20  election  and  shall  then  be  deemed  repealed  unless  approved 

21  by  a  majority  of  those  voting  thereon.    Or  the  council  by 

22  a  four-fifths  vote  may  submit  such  measure  or  part  thereof 

23  with  like  effect  to  the  electors  at  a  special  election  to  be 

24  called  by  said  council  not  less  than  thirty  days  after  the 

25  receipt  of  said  clerk's  certificate. 

26  Sec.  29.    Title  of  Ballot.    Proposed  measures  and  char- 

27  ter  amendments  shall  be  submitted  by  ballot  title.  There 

28  shall  appear  upon  the  official  ballot  a  ballot  title  which  may 

29  be  distinct  from  the  legal  title  of  any  such  proposed  measure 

30  or  charter  amendment  and  which  shall  be  a  clear,  concise 

31  statement,  without  argument  or  prejudice,  descriptive  of  the 

32  substance  of  such  measure  or  charter  amendment.    The  bal- 

33  lot  title  shall  be  prepared  by  the  committee  of  the  petitioners 

34  if  for  an  initiated  or  a  referendum  measure,  or  by  a  com- 

35  mittee  of  the  council  when  submitted  by  the  council. 

26 


1  Sec.  30.    Form  of  Ballot.   The  ballots  used  when  voting 

%  upon  such  proposed  measure  shall  designate  the  same,  and  be- 

3  low  it  the  two  propositions,  "For  the  measure"  and  "Against 

4  the  measure." 

5  Sec.  31.    Emergency  Measures.     Measures  passed  as 

6  emergency  measures  shall  be  subject  to  referendum  like  other 

7  measures,  except  that  they  shall  not  be  suspended  from  going 

8  into  effect  while  referendum  proceedings  are  pending.  If, 

9  when  submitted  to  a  vote  of  the  electors,  an  emergency  meas- 

10  ure  be  not  approved  by  a  majority  of  those  voting  thereon, 

11  it  shall  be  considered  repealed,  as  regards  any  further  action 

12  thereunder  and  all  rights  and  privileges  conferred  by  it  shall 

13  be  null  and  void:  Provided,  however,  that  such  measure  so 

14  repealed  shall  be  deemed  sufficient  authority  for  any  payment 

15  made  or  expense  incurred  in  accordance  with  the  measure 

16  previous  to  the  referendum  vote  thereon. 

17  Sec.  32.    Official  Publicity  Pamphlet.    The  city  clerk, 

18  at  least  fifteen  days  before  any  election  at  which  any  measure 

19  or  charter  amendment  is  to  be  submitted,  shall  print  and 

20  mail  to  each  elector  qualified  to  vote  thereon  an  official  pub- 

21  licity  pamphlet  containing  the  full  text  of  every  measure  or 

22  charter  amendment  submitted,  with  their  respective  ballot 

23  titles,  together  with  arguments,  for  or  against  such  meas- 

24  ures  or  charter  amendments,  which  may  have  been  filed 

25  with  the  city  clerk  not  less  than  twenty  days  before  such 

26  election.     Such  arguments  shall  be  signed  by  the  person, 

27  persons,  or  officers  of  organizations  authorized  to  submit  and 

28  sign  the  same,  who  shall  deposit  with  the  city  clerk  at  the 

29  time  of  filing  a  sum  of  money  sufficient  to  cover  the  propor- 

30  tionate  cost  of  the  printing  and  paper  for  the  space  taken, 

31  but  no  more.    The  text  of  every  measure  or  charter  amend- 

32  ment  shall  also  be  displayed  at  the  polling  booths  in  such 

33  election.    Provided,  that  the  validity  of  a  measure  or  charter 

34  amendment  approved  by  the  electors  shall  not  be  questioned 

35  because  of  errors  or  irregularities  in  such  mailing,  distribu- 

36  tion  or  display. 

27 


1  Sec.  33.    Conflict  of  Referred  Measures.    If  two  or 

%  more  measures  adopted  or  approved  at  the  same  election 

3  conflict  in  respect  of  any  of  their  provisions,  they  shall  go 

4  into  effect  in  respect  of  such  of  their  provisions  as  are  not 

5  in  conflict  and  the  one  receiving  the  highest  affirmative  vote 

6  shall  prevail  in  so  far  as  their  provisions  conflict. 


28 


ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE:  THE  CITY 
MANAGER.1! 

1  Sec.  34.    The  City  Manager.    The  city  manager  shall 

2  be  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the  city.    He  shall  be  chosen 

3  by  the  council  solely  on  the  basis  of  his  executive  and  ad- 

4  ministrative  qualifications.    The  choice  shall  not  be  limited 

5  to  inhabitants  of  the  city  or  state.13 

6  The  city  manager  shall  receive  a  compensation  of  not 

7  less  than  a  year.14    He  shall  be  appointed  for  an 

8  indefinite  period.    He  shall  be  removable  by  the  council.  If 

9  removed  at  any  time  after  six  months  he  may  demand  written 

10  charges  and  a  public  hearing  on  the  same  before  the  council 

11  prior  to  the  date  on  which  his  final  removal  shall  take  effect, 

12  but  during  such  hearing  the  council  may  suspend  him  from 

13  office.    During  the  absence  or  disability  of  the  city  manager 

14  the  council  shall  designate  some  properly  qualified  person  to 
157  perform  the  duties  of  the  office. 

16  Sec.  35.    Powers  and  Duties  of  the  City  Manager.  The 

17  city  manager  shall  be  responsible  to  the  council  for  the 

18  proper  administration  of  all  affairs  of  the  city,  and  to  that 

Note  12.  While  the  manager  plan  herein  proposed  is  probably  the 
most  advanced  and  scientific  form  of  municipal  organization  yet  sug- 
gested, it  is  of  the  highest  importance  that  any  city  adopting  the  plan 
should  not  omit  any  of  the  other  principal  features  accompanying  it  in 
this  draft.  Without  these  provisions  the  manager  plan,  owing  to  its 
concentration  of  executive  and  administrative  authority  in  the  manager, 
might  prove  to  be  susceptible  to  perversion  in  the  interest  of  a  boss  in 
cities  with  an  undeveloped  and  inactive  public  opinion,  because  the 
members  of  council  might  then  be  elected  upon  a  slate  pledged  before- 
hand to  the  selection  of  some  particular  candidate  as  manager. 

It  is  also  true  that  no  form  of  government  can  in  and  of  itself  pro- 
duce good  results.  The  most  that  any  plan  can  do  is  to  provide  an 
organization  which  lends  itself  to  efficient  action,  and  which  at  the  same 
time  places  in  the  hands  of  the  electorate  simple  and  effective  means 
for  controlling  their  government  in  their  own  interests.  The  evils  in 
city  government  due  to  defective  and  undemocratic  organization  can 
thus  be  removed;  beyond  that,  results  can  only  be  achieved  through 
the  growth  of  an  active  and  enlightened  public  opinion. 

Note  13.  The  German  plan  of  publicly  advertising  for  a  burgo- 
meister  and  heads  of  departments  and  selecting  the  ones  who  best  show 
the  qualifications  demanded  has  been  highly  successful. 

Note  14.  The  minimum  salary  would  vary  according  to  the  size  of 
the  city  and  the  responsibilities  of  the  office.  Dayton,  Ohio,  a  city  of 
,  117,000  inhabitants,  pays  its  city  manager  a  salary  of  $12,500  per  year. 


29 


1  end  shall  make  all  appointments,  except  as  otherwise  pro- 

%  vided  in  this  charter.    Except  when  the  council  is  consider- 

3  ing  his  removal,  he  shall  be  entitled  to  be  present  at  all 

4  meetings  of  the  council  and  of  its  committees  and  to  take 

5  part  in  their  discussion. 

6  Sec.  36.    Annual  Budget.    The  city  manager  shall  pre- 

7  pare  and  submit  to  the  council  the  annual  budget  after  re- 

8  ceiving  estimates  made  by  the  directors  of  the  departments. 

Administrative  Departments. 

9  Sec.  37.    Administrative  Departments  Created.  There 

10  shall  be  six  administrative  departments  as  follows :  Law, 

11  health,  works  and  utilities,  safety  and  welfare,  education  15 

12  .  and  finance,  the  functions  of  which  shall    be  prescribed 

13  by  the  council  except  as  herein  otherwise  provided.  The 

14  council  shall  fix  all  salaries,  which  in  the  classified  service 

15  shall  be  uniform  for  each  grade,  as  established  by  the  civil 

16  service  commission,  and  the  council  may,  by  a  three-fourths 

17  vote  of  its  entire  membership,  create  new  departments,  com- 

18  bine  or  abolish  existing  departments  or  establish  temporary 

19  departments  for  special  work.16 

Note  15.  In  places  where  the  school  system  works  well  under  a 
separate  organization  it  had  better  not  be  disturbed,  and  in  such  cases 
the  department  of  education  will  generally  have  to  be  omitted. 

Note  16.  The  number  of  departments  may  be  increased  or  dimin- 
ished according  to  the  population  or  other  local  needs  of  a  given  city. 
Where  it  is  increased  it  will  probably  be  desirable  to  divide  the  depart- 
ment of  safety  and  welfare  into  two  departments,  and  in  some  cases 
to  divide  the  department  of  safety  into  police  and  fire  departments 
respectively.  The  department  of  utilities  may  be  separated  from 
department  of  public  works  when  (1)  such  utilities  are  privately 
owned,  so  that  their  administration  is  chiefly  regulative;  and  (2)  in 
large  cities  where  the  department  of  works  and  utilities  would  make 
too  large  a  department  or  where  it  seemed  desirable  to  put  all  the 
revenue-producing  industries  in  one  department.  In  reducing  the  num- 
ber of  departments,  those  of  law,  health  and  finance  might  be  cut  out 
in  the  order  named,  either  combining  them  with  remaining  departments 
(as  health  with  welfare  and  safety)  or  making  them  directly  Subordi- 
nate to  the  city  manager. 

The  number  of  departments  can  be  kept  down  in  the  larger  cities 
and  reduced  in  the  smaller  ones  by  (1)  the  creation  of  department 
bureaus  and  (2)  where  so  complex  an  organization  as  a  bureau  is  not 
needed  by  having  the  proper  official  report  directly  to  the  city  manager 
instead  of  to  a  department  head. 

The  principle  underlying  the  formation  of  departments  and  bureaus 
should  be  twofold:  (1)  functional  grouping  and  (2)  tasks  which  demand 
the  time  and  capacity  of  the  highest  grade  of  administrative  heads — 
i.  e.,  one  first-class  full-time  man  to  head  each  department. 


30 


1  Sec.   38.    Duties  of  Directors  of  Departments.  At 

2  the  head  of  each  department  there  shall  be  a  director. 

3  Each  director  shall  be  chosen  on  the  basis  of  his  general 

4  executive  and  administrative  experience  and  ability  and  of 

5  his   education,   training   and   experience  in   the   class  of 

6  work  which  he  is  to  administer.    The  director  of  the  de- 

7  partment  of  law  shall  be  a  lawyer  ;  of  health,  a  sanitary  engi- 

8  neer  or  a  member  of  the  medical  profession ;  of  works,  an  en- 

9  gineer;  of  education,  a  teacher  by  profession;  of  safety,  and 

10  welfare,  a  man  who  has  had  administrative  experience;  and 

11  of  finance,  a  man  who  has  had  experience  in  banking,  ac- 

12  counting  or  other  financial  matters ;  or  in  each  case  the  man 

13  must  have  rendered  active  service  in  the  same  department  in 

14  this  or  some  other  city. 

15  Each  director  shall  be  appointed  by  the  city  manager 

16  and  may  be  removed  by  him  at  any  time ;  but  in  case  of  such 

17  removal,  if  the  director  so  demands,  written  charges  must  be 

18  preferred  by  the  city  manager,  and  the  director  shall  be 

19  given  a  public  hearing  before  the  order  of  removal  is  made 

20  final.    The  charges  and  the  director's  reply  thereto  shall  be 

21  filed  with  the  clerk  of  council. 

22  Sec.  39.    Responsibility  of  Directors  of  Departments. 

23  The  directors   of  departments   shall  be  immediately  re- 

24  sponsible  to  the  city  manager  for  the  administration  of 

25  their  departments  and  their  advice  in  writing  may  be  re- 

26  quired  by  him  on  all  matters  affecting  their  departments. 

27  They  shall  prepare  departmental  estimates,  which  shall  be 

28  open  to  public  inspection,  and  they  shall  make  all  other  re- 

29  ports  and  recommendations  concerning  their  departments 

30  at  stated  intervals  or  when  requested  by  the  city  manager. 

31  Sec.  40.    Powers  of  Subpoena.    The  council,  the  city 

32  manager  and  any  officer  or  board  authorized  by  them,  or 

33  either  of  them,  shall  have  power  to  make  investigations  as  to 

34  city  affairs,  to  subpoena  witnesses,  administer  oaths  and 

35  compel  the  production  of  books  and  papers. 

31 


CIVIL  SERVICE  BOARD. 

1  Sec.  41.    Creation  of  Civil  Service  Board.  A  civil  service 

2  board  shall  be  appointed  by  the  council  to  consist  of  three 

3  members.    The  terms  of  the  members  when  the  first  appoint- 

4  ments  are  made  shall  be  so  arranged  as  to  expire  one  every 

5  two  years,  and  each  appointment  made  thereafter  upon  the 

6  expiration  of  any  term  shall  be  for  six  years.    The  council 

7  shall  also  fill  any  vacancy  for  an  unexpired  term.   A  member 

8  of  the  board  shall  be  removable  for  neglect,  incapacity  or  mal- 

9  feasance  in  office  by  a  four-fifths  vote  of  the  council,  after 

10  written  charges  upon  at  least  ten  days'  notice  and  after  a 

11  public  hearing. 

12  The  board  shall  employ  a  secretary  and  a  chief  examiner 

13  (but  the  same  person  may  perform  the  duties  of  both  of- 

14  fices)   and  such  further  examiners  and  such  clerical  and 

15  other  assistance  as  may  be  necessary,  and  shall  determine 

16  the  compensation  of  all  persons  so  employed.  Provision 

17  shall  be  made  in  the  annual  budget  and  appropriation  bill  for 

18  the  expenses  of  the  board. 

19  Sec.  42.    Power  to  Make  Rules  and  What  the  Rules 

20  Shall  Provide.    The  board  shall,  after  public  notice  and 

21  hearing,  make,  promulgate  and,  when  necessary,  amend  rules 

22  for  the  appointment,  promotion,  transfer,  lay  off,  reinstate- 

23  ment,  suspension  and  removal  of  city  officials  and  employes, 

24  reporting  its  proceedings  to  the  council  and  to  the  city 

25  manager  when  required.     Such  rules  shall,  among  other 

26  things,  provide  : 

27  (a)     For  the  standardization  and  classification  of  all 

28  positions  and  employments  in  the  civil  service  of  the  city. 

29  The  classification  into  groups  and  subdivisions  shall  be  based 

30  upon  and  graded  according  to  their  duties  and  responsibili- 

31  ties  and  so  arranged  as  to  promote  the  filling  of  the  higher 

32  grades,  so  far  as  practicable,  through  promotion.     All  sal- 

33  aries  shall  be  uniform  for  like  service  in  each  grade  as  the 

34  same  shall  be  standardized  and  classified  by  the  civil  service 

35  board.    The  civil  service  so  standardized  and  classified  shall 

32 


1  not  include  officers  elected  by  the  people,  nor  the  judges,  and 

2  may  or  may  not  include  the  directors  of  executive  depart- 

3  ments,  or  the  superintendents,  principals  and  teachers  of  the 
4t  public  schools,  as  may  be  directed  by  the  council. 

5  (b)     For  open  competitive  tests,  to  ascertain  the  relative 

6  fitness  of  all  applicants  for  appointment  to  the  classified  civil 

7  service  of  said  city,  including  mechanics  and  laborers — skilled 

8  and  unskilled.    Such  tests  shall  be  practical  and  relate  to 

9  matters  which  will  fairly  measure  the  relative  fitness  of  the 

10  candidates  to  discharge  the  duties  of  the  positions  to  which 

11  they  seek  to  be  appointed.    Notice  of  such  tests  shall  be 

12  given  not  less  than  ten  days  in  advance  by  public  advertise- 

13  ment  in  at  least  one  newspaper  of  general  circulation,  and 

14  by  posting  a  notice  in  the  city  hall.    The  board  may,  by 

15  unanimous  vote,  provide  for  non-competitive  tests  for  any 

16  position  requiring  peculiar  and  exceptional  qualifications  of 

17  a  scientific,  managerial,  professional  or  educational  charac- 

18  ter,  but  all  such  actions  of  the  board  with  the  reasons  there- 

19  for  shall  be  published  in  its  annual  report. 

20  (c)     For  the  creation  of  eligible  lists  upon  which  shall 

21  be  entered  the  names  of  successful  candidates  in  the  order 

22  of  their  standing  in  examination,  and  for  the  filling  of  places 

23  in  the  civil  service  of  the  city  by  selection  from  not  more 

24  than  the  three  candidates  graded  highest  on  such  eligible 

25  lists.    Eligible  lists  shall  remain  in  force  not  longer  than 

26  two  years. 

27  In  the  absence  of  an  appropriate  eligible  list,  any  place 

28  may  be  filled  temporarily  without  examination  for  a  period 

29  limited  by  the  rules,  but  not  to  exceed  sixty  days,  during 

30  which  time  the  board  shall  hold  the  necessary  examination 

31  for  filling  the  place  permanently.    With  the  consent  of  the 

32  board,  persons  may  be  temporarily  employed  for  transitory 

33  work  without  examination,  but  such  employment  shall  not 

34  continue  for  more  than  sixty  days,  or  be  renewed. 

35  No  person  shall  be  appointed  or  employed  under  any 

36  title  not  appropriate  to  the  duties  to  be  performed,  and  no 

37  person  shall  be  transferred  to  or  assigned  to  perform  any 

33 


1  duties  of  an}^  position  subject  to  competitive  tests  unless 

2  he  shall  have  been  appointed  to  the  position  from  which 

3  transfer  is  made  as  the  result  of  an  open  competitive  test 

4  equivalent  to  that  required  for  the  position  to  be  filled,  or 

5  unless  he  shall  have  served  with  fidelity  for  at  least  two 

6  years  immediately  preceding  in  a  similar  position  in  the 

7  city.    Each  list  of  eligibles,  with  the  respective  grades,  shall 

8  be  open  to  public  inspection. 

9  Any  person  appointed  from  an  eligible  list  and  laid  off 

10  for  lack  of  work  or  of  appropriation  shall  be  placed  at  the 

11  head  of  the  eligible  list  and  shall  be  eligible  for  reappoint- 

12  ment  for  the  period  of  eligibility  as  provided  by  the  rules 

13  of  the  board. 

14  (d)    For  a  period  of  probation  not  exceeding  six  months 

15  before  an  appointment  or  employment  is  made  permanent. 

16  (e)     For  reinstatement  on  the  eligible  lists  of  persons 

17  who  without  fault  or  delinquency  are  separated  from  the 

18  service. 

19  (f)    For  promotion  from  the  lower  grades  to  the  higher, 

20  based  upon  competitive  records  of  efficiency  and  seniority 
to  be  furnished  by  the  departments  in  which  the  person  is 
employed  and  kept  by  said  civil  service  board,  or  upon  com- 
petitive promotion  tests,  or  both.  Appointments  to  such 
higher  positions  as  shall  be  specified  by  the  board  may,  if 
the  city  manager  approves,  be  made  after  competitive  tests 
in  which  persons  not  in  the  service  of  the  city  may  also 
compete  as  well  as  applicants  for  such  positions  from  the 
lower  grades  of  the  service  or  from  other  branches  thereof ; 
and  the  appointments  shall  be  made  to  such  higher  positions 
from  those  standing  highest  as  in  the  case  of  other  competi- 
tive tests.  An  increase  in  compensation  within  a  grade  may 
be  granted  upon  the  basis  of  efficiency  and  seniority  records. 

Sec.  43.  Supervisory  Powers  of  Civil  Service  Board. 
It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  civil  service  board  to  supervise 
the  execution  of  the  civil  service  sections  and  the  rules  made 
thereunder,  and  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  all  persons  in  the 

34 


1  public  service  of  said  city  to  comply  with  said  rules  and  aid 

2  in  their  enforcement. 

3  The  said  board  shall  keep  public  records  of  its  proceed- 

4  ings  of  the  markings  and  gradings  upon  examinations,  and 

5  of  all  recommendations  or  certificates  of  the  qualifications 

6  of  applicants  for  office  or  employment;  and  it  shall  also 

7  keep  a  public  record  of  the  conduct  and  efficiency  of  each  per- 

8  son  in  the  service  of  the  city,  to  be  furnished  by  the  head  of 

9  the  department  in  which  such  person  is  employed  in  such 

10  form  and  manner  as  the  board  may  prescribe. 

11  The  board  may  make  investigations  concerning  the  facts 

12  in  respect  to  the  execution  of  the  civil  service  sections  and  of 

13  the  rules  established  thereunder  and  concerning  the  general 

14  condition  of  the  civil  service  of  the  city  or  any  branch 

15  thereof.     The  board  shall  fix  standards  of  efficiency  and 

16  recommend  measures  for  co-ordinating  the  operation  of  the 

17  various  departments  and  for  increasing  individual,  group 

18  and  departmental  efficiency.    Each  member  of  the  board,  or 

19  any  person  whom  the  board  may  appoint  to  make  such  in- 

20  vestigations,  shall  have  power  to  administer  oaths,  to  compel 

21  the  production  of  books  and  papers  and  to  subpoena  wit- 

22  nesses. 

23  The  board  shall  keep  a  complete  public  roster  of  all  per- 

24  sons  in  the  service  of  the  city  and  certify  to  the  proper 

25  official  the  name  and  compensation  of  each  person  employed ; 

26  also  every  change  occurring  in  any  office  or  employment, 

27  and  no  treasurer  or  other  public  disbursing  officer  shall  pay 

28  and  no  controller  or  other  auditing  officer  shall  authorize 

29  the  payment  of  any  salary  or  compensation  to  any  person 

30  holding  a  position  in  the  classified  service,  unless  the  pay 

31  roll  or  account  for  such  salary  or  compensation  shall  bear 

32  the  certificate  of  the  board  that  the  person  named  therein 

33  has  been  appointed  or  employed  and  is  performing  serv- 

34  ices  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  charter  and 

35  the  rules  hereby  authorized.    Any  sums  paid  contrary  to 

36  the  provisions  of  this  section  may  be  recovered  from  any 

35 


1  officer  paying  or  authorizing  the  payment  thereof  and  from 

2  the  sureties  on  his  official  bond. 

3  Sec.  44.    Power  of  Removal  and  Suspension.    Any  of- 

4  fleer  or  employe  in  the  classified  service  may  be  removed, 

5  suspended,  laid  off,  or  reduced  in  grade  by  the  city  manager 

6  or  by  the  head  of  the  department  in  which  he  is  employed, 

7  for  any  cause  which  will  promote  the  efficiency  of  the  serv- 

8  ice;  but  he  must  first  be  furnished  with  a  written  state- 

9  ment  of  the  reasons  therefor  and  be  allowed  a  reasonable 

10  time  for  answering  such  reasons  in  writing,  which  answer, 

11  if  he  so  request,  shall  (so  far  as  the  same  is  relevant  and 

12  .  pertinent)  be  made  a  part  of  the  records  of  the  board ;  and 

13  he  may  be  suspended  from  the  date  when  such  written  state- 

14  ment  of  reasons  is  furnished  him.    No  trial  or  examination 

15  of  witnesses  shall  be  required  in  such  case  except  in  the  dis- 

16  cretion  of  the  officer  making  the  removal.    In  all  cases  pro- 

17  vided  for  in  this  paragraph  the  action  of  the  city  manager 

18  or  head  of  the  department  shall  be  final. 

19  The  civil  service  board  shall  also  have  the  right  to  re- 

20  move  or  reduce  any  official  or  employe  upon  written  charges 

21  of  misconduct  preferred  by  any  citizen,  but  only  after  rea- 

22  sonable  notice  to  the  accused  and  full  hearing.    It  shall  also 

23  be  the  duty  of  the  board  to  fix  a  minimum  standard  of  con- 

24  duct  and  efficiency  for  each  grade  in  the  service,  and  when- 

25  ever  it  shall  appear  from  the  reports  of  efficiency  made  to 

26  said  board,  for  a  period  of  three  months,  that  the  conduct 

27  and  efficiency  of  any  employe  has  fallen  below  this  minimum, 

28  such  employe  shall  be  called  before  the  board  to  show  cause 

29  why  he  should  not  be  removed,  and  if  upon  hearing  no  reason 

30  is  shown  satisfactory  to  the  board  he  shall  be  removed,  sus- 

31  pended  or  reduced  in  grade  as  the  board  shall  determine. 

32  Sec.  45.    Restrictions  on  Civil  Service  Appointees  and 

33  Forbidden  Practices.    No  person  shall  willfully  or  corruptly 

34  make  any  false  statement,  certificate,  mark,  grading  or  re- 

35  port  in  regard  to  any  examination  or  appointment  held  or 

36  made  under  this  article,  or  in  any  other  manner  attempt  to 

36  ' 


1  commit  any  fraud  upon  the  impartial  execution  of  this  article 

2  or  of  the  civil  service  rules  and  regulations. 

3  No  person  in  the  classified  service  shall  directly  or  indi- 

4  rectly  give,  solicit  or  receive  or  be  in  any  manner  concerned 

5  in  giving,  soliciting  or  receiving  any  assessment,  subscription 

6  or  contribution  for  any  political  party  or  purpose  whatever. 

7  No  person  whosoever  shall  orally  or  by  letter  solicit  or  be 

8  in  any  manner  concerned  in  soliciting  any  assessment,  sub- 

9  scription  or  contribution  for  any  political  party  from  any 

10  person  holding  a  position  in  the  classified  service.    No  person 

11  shall  use  or  promise  to  use  his  influence  or  official  authority 

12  to  secure  any  appointment  or  prospect  of  appointment  to 

13  any  position  classified  and  graded  under  this  charter  as  a 

14  reward  or  return  for  personal  or  partisan  political  service. 

15  No  person  about  to  be  appointed  to  any  position  classified 

16  and  graded  under  this  charter  shall  sign  or  execute  a  resigna- 

17  tion  dated  or  undated  in  advance  of  such  appointment.  No 

18  person  in  the  service  of  the  city  shall  discharge,  suspend, 

19  lay  off,  degrade,  or  promote,  or  in  any  manner  change  the 

20  official  rank  or  compensation  of  any  other  person  in  said 

21  service,  or  promise  or  threaten  to  do  so  for  withholding  or 

22  neglecting  to  make  any  contribution  of  money  or  service  or 

23  any  other  valuable  thing  for  any  political  purpose. 

24  No  person  shall  take  part  in  preparing  any  political 

25  assessment,  subscription  or  contribution  with  the  intent  that 

26  the  same  shall  be  sent  or  presented  to  or  collected  from  any 

27  person  in  the  classified  service  of  the  city;  and  no  person 

28  shall  knowingly  send  or  present,  directly  or  indirectly,  in 

29  person  or  by  letter,  any  political  assessment,  subscription 

30  or  contribution  to,  or  request  its  payment  by  any  person 

31  in  the  classified  service. 

32  No  person  in  the  service  of  the  city  shall  use  his  official 

33  authority  or  influence  to  coerce  the  political  action  of  any 
34.  person  or  body,  or  to  interfere  with  any  nomination  or 
35  election  to  public  office. 

37 


1  No  person  holding  office  or  place  classified  and  graded 

2  under  the  provisions  of  this  article  shall  act  as  an  officer 

3  of  a  political  organization  or  take  any  active  part  in  a 

4  political  campaign  or  serve  as  a  member  of  a  committee  of 

5  any  such  organization  or  circulate  or  seek  signatures  to 

6  any  petition  provided  for  by  any  primary  or  election  laws, 

7  other  than  an  initiative  or  referendum  petition,  or  act  as  a 

8  worker  at  the  polls  in  favor  of  or  opposed  to  any  candidate 

9  for  election  or  nomination  to  a  public  office,  whether  federal, 

10  state,  county  or  municipal. 

11  Sec.  46.    Politics  and  Religion  Excluded.    No  question 

12  in  any  examination  held  hereunder  shall  relate  to  political  or 

13  religious  opinions,  affiliations  or  service,  and  no  appointment, 

14  transfer,  lay  off,  promotion,  reduction,  suspension  or  re- 

15  moval  shall  be  affected  or  influenced  by  such  opinions,  affilia- 

16  tions  or  service. 

17  Sec.  47.    Violations  of  Civil  Service  Rules  and  Regu- 

18  lotions.    Any  person  who  shall  willfully,  or  through  culp- 

19  able  negligence,  violate  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  article 

20  or  of  the  rules  of  the  board  made  in  pursuance  thereof  shall 

21  be  guilty  of  a  misdemeanor,  and  shall,  on  conviction,  be 

22  punished  by  a  fine  of  not  less  than  $50  nor  more  than  $1000, 

23  or  by  imprisonment  for  a  term  not  exceeding  six  months, 

24  or  by  both  such  fine  and  imprisonment.    If  such  person  be 

25  an  applicant  for  examination  he  shall  be  excluded  there- 

26  from.  If  he  be  an  eligible  his  name  shall  be  removed  from 

27  the  eligible  list,  and  if  he  be  an  officer  or  employe  of  the 

28  city  he  shall  thereby  be  removed  forthwith  from  the  service. 

29  Sec.  48.    Power  of  Taxpayer  to  Enforce  Rules.  Any 

30  taxpayer  in  the  city  may  maintain  an  action  to  recover  for 

31  the  city  any  sum  of  money  paid  in  violation  of  the  civil  serv- 

32  ice  provisions,  or  to  enjoin  the  board  from  attaching  its 

33  certificate  to  a  payroll  or  account  for  services  rendered  in 

34  violation  of  this  charter  or  the  rules  made  thereunder ;  and 

35  the  rules  made  under  the  foregoing  provisions  shall  for  this 

36  and  all  other  purposes  have«the  force  of  law. 

38 


FINANCIAL  PROVISIONS. 

1  Sec.  49.    The  Director  of  Finance.    The  director  of 

2  finance  shall  have  direct  supervision  over  the  department  of 

3  finance  and  the  administration  of  the  financial  affairs  of  the 

4  city,  including  the  keeping  of  accounts  and  financial  records ; 

5  the  levy,  assessment  and  collection  of  taxes,  special  assess- 

6  ments  and  other  revenues  (except  as  otherwise  provided  by 

7  general  law)  ;  the  custody  and  disbursement  of  city  funds 

8  and  moneys ;  the  control  over  expenditures ;  and  such  other 

9  duties  as  the  council  may,  by  ordinance,  provide. 

10  Sec.  50.    Accounts  and  Records.   Accounts  shall  be  kept 

11  by  the  department  of  finance  showing  the  financial  trans- 
it actions  for  all  departments  of  the  city.    Forms  for  all  such 

13  accounts  shall  be  prescribed  by  the  director  of  finance  with 

14  the  approval  of  the  city  manager;  and  shall  be  adequate  to 

15  record  all  cash  receipts  and  disbursements,  all  revenues  ac- 

16  crued  and  liabilities  incurred,  and  all  transactions  affecting 

17  the  acquisition,  custody  and  disposition  of  values,  and  to 

18  make  such  reports  of  the  financial  transactions  and  con- 

19  dition  of  the  city  as  may  be  required  by  law  or  ordinance. 

20  Financial  reports  shall  be  prepared  for  each  quarter  and 

21  each  fiscal  year,  and  for  such  other  periods  as  may  be  re- 

22  quired  by  the  city  manager,  or  the  council. 

23  Sec.  51.    Annual  Budget.    Not  later  than  one  month 

24  before  the  end.  of  each  fiscal  year,  the  city  manager  shall 

25  prepare  and  submit  to  the  council  an  annual  budget  for  the 

26  ensuing  fiscal  year,  based  upon  detailed  estimates  furnished 

27  by  the  several  departments  and  other  divisions  of  the  city 

28  government,  according  to  a  classification  as  nearly  uniform 

29  as  possible.    The  budget  shall  present  the  following  infor- 

30  mation : 

31  (a)     An  itemized  statement  of  the  appropriations  recom- 

32  mended  by  the  city  manager  for  current  expenses  and  for 

33  permanent  improvements  for  each  department  and  each  divi- 

34  sion  thereof  for  the  ensuing  fiscal  year,  with  comparative 

35  statements  in  parallel  columns  of  the  appropriations  and 

39 


1  expenditures  for  the  current  and  next  preceding  fiscal  year, 

2  and  the  increases  or  decreases  in  the  appropriations  recom- 

3  mended ; 

4  (b)    An  itemized  statement  of  the  taxes  required  and 

5  of  the  estimated  revenues  of  the  city  from  all  other  sources 

6  for  the  ensuing  fiscal  year,  with  comparative  statements  in 

7  parallel  columns  of  the  taxes  and  other  revenues  for  the  cur- 

8  rent  and  next  preceding  fiscal  year,  and  of  the  increases  or 

9  decreases  estimated  or  proposed ; 

10  (c)    A  statement  of  the  financial  condition  of  the  city; 

11  and 

12  (d)     Such  other  information  as  may  be  required  by  the 

13  .  council. 

14  Copies  of  such  budget  shall  be  printed  and  available  for 

15  distribution  not  later  than  two  weeks  after  its  submission 

16  to  the  council;  and  a  public  hearing  shall  be  given  thereon 

17  by  the  council  or  a  committee  thereof  before  action  by  the 

18  council. 

19  Sec.  52.    Appropriation  Ordinance.    Temporary  Ap- 

20  propriations.    Transfers.    Not  later  than  one  month  after 

21  ■  the  beginning  of  the  fiscal  year  the  council  shall  pass  an  an- 

22  nual  appropriation  ordinance,  which  shall  be  based  on  the 

23  budget  submitted  by  the  city  manager.    The  total  amount 

24  of  appropriations  shall  not  exceed  the  estimated  revenues  of 

25  the  city. 

26  Before  the  annual  appropriation  ordinance  has  been 

27  passed,  the  council,  with  the  approval  in  writing  of  the  city 

28  manager,  may  make  appropriations  for  current  department 

29  expenses,  chargeable  to  the  appropriations  of  the  year  when 

30  passed,  to  an  amount  sufficient  to  cover  the  necessary  ex- 

31  penses  of  the  various  departments  until  the  annual  appro- 

32  priation  is  in  force.    No  other  liabilities  shall  be  incurred  by 

33  any  officer  or  employe  of  the  city,  except  in  accordance  with 

34  the  provisions  of  the  annual  appropriation  ordinance,  or 

35  under  continuing  contracts  and  loans  authorized  under  the 

36  provisions  of  this  charter. 

40 


1  At  any  meeting  after  the  passage  of  the  appropriation 

2  ordinance,  and  after  at  least  one  week's  public  notice,  the 

3  council,  by  a  three-fourths  vote,  may  amend  such  ordinance, 

4  so  as  to  authorize  the  transfer  of  unused  balances  appropri- 

5  '  ated  for  one  purpose  to  another  purpose,  or  to  appropriate 

6  available  revenues  not  included  in  the  annual  budget. 

7  Sec-.  53.    Taw  Levy.    On  or  before  the 

8  day  of  in  each  year,  the  council  shall,  by  ordi- 

9  nance,  levy  such  tax  as  may  be  necessary  to  meet  the  appro- 

10  priations  made  (less  the  estimated  amount  of  revenue  from 

11  other  sources)  and  all  sums  required  by  law  to  be  raised  on 

12  account  of  the  city  debt,  together  with  such  addition,  not 

13  exceeding  five  per  cent,  as  may  be  necessary  to  meet  com- 

14  missions,  fees  and  abatements  in  the  amount  of  taxes  col- 

15  lected  from  the  estimates. 

16  Sec.  54.    Assessment  of  Property.   All  property  subject 

17  to  ad  valorem  taxation  shall  be  valued  at  its  fair  market 

18  value,  subject  to  review  and  equalization,  as  provided  by  law 

19  or  ordinance.    In  valuing  improved  real  estate  for  taxation 

20  the  market  value  of  the  land  shall  be  valued  separately ;  and 

21  improvements  thereon  shall  be  valued  at  the  amount  by 

22  which  they  increase  the  value  of  the  land. 

23  Sec.  55.    Special  Assessments.    The  council  shall  have 

24  power  by  ordinance  to  provide  for  the  payment  of  all  or 

25  any  part  of  the  cost  of  the  construction,  reconstruction, 

26  repair,  operation  or  maintenance  of  any  structure  or  work 

27  in  the  nature  of  a  public  improvement,  including  a  public 

28  utility,  by  levying  and  collecting  special  assessments  upon 

29  abutting,    adjacent    and    contiguous    or    other  property 

30  specially  benefited.    Such  special  assessments  for  works  of 

31  construction  or  reconstruction  may  be  payable  in  instal- 

32  ments  within  a  period  of  not  more  than  ten  years.  The 

33  amount  so  assessed  against  any  property  shall  not  exceed 

34  the  amount  of  benefits  accruing  to  such  property  from  such 

35  improvement  and  the  operation  thereof.    Provision  shall  be 

41 


1  made  by  ordinance  for  the  method  of  levying  and  apportion 

2  ing  such  special  assessments,  for  the  publication  of  plans, 

3  for  serving  notices  on  the  owners  of  property  affected,  and 
4*  for  hearing  complaints  and  claims  before  final  action  thereon. 

5  Sec.  56.    Bond  Issues.    Money  may  be  borrowed  by  the 

6  issue  and  sale  of  bonds,  pledged  on  the  credit  of  the  city,  or 

7  on  the  property  or  revenues  of  any  public  utility  owned  by 

8  the  city,  for  the  purchase  of  land,  the  construction  and 

9  equipment  of  buildings  and  other  permanent  public  improve- 

10  ments  and  the  payment  or  refunding  of  bonds  previously 

11  issued.    No  ordinance  providing  for  the  issue  of  bonds  shall 

12  be  passed  without  public  notice  at  least  two  weeks  before 

13  final  action  by  the  council,  and  the  approval  of  two-thirds 

14  of1  all  the  members  of  the  council,  or  submission  to  the  elec- 

15  tors  of  the  city  at  a  regular  or  special  election  and  the  ap- 

16  proval  of  a  majority  of  those  voting  thereon.    No  bonds 

17  shall  be  issued  on  the  credit  of  the  city  which  shall  increase 

18  such  bonded  indebtedness  of  the  city  beyond  per 

19  cent  of  the  assessed  valuation  of  property  in  the  city 

20  subject  to  direct  taxation,  as  shown  by  the  last  preceding 

21  valuation  for  city  taxes.17    Every  issue  of  bonds  shall  be 

22  payable  within  a  term  of  years,  not  to  exceed  the  estimated 

23  period  of  utility  of  the  improvement  for  which  they  are 

24  issued,  and  in  no  case  to  exceed  thirty  years ;  18  and  shall  be 

25  payable  in  equal  annual  serial  instalments,  including  prin- 

26  cipal  and  interest.    Every  ordinance  for  the  issue  of  bonds 

27  shall  provide  for  a  tax  levy  for  each  year  to  meet  the  annual 

28  serial   instalments   of  principal   and   interest,   and  such 

29  amounts  shall  be  included  in  the  tax  levy  for  each  year.19 

Note  17.  If  desired,  provision  may  be  made  for  the  issue  of  bonds 
outside  the  debt  limit  on  the  credit  of  the  city  for  self-sustaining 
utilities. 

Note  18.  In  cities  where  subways  and  other  improvements  of 
extraordinary  cost  and  permanency  may  be  needed  this  period  may  be 
extended  to  fifty  years. 

Note  19.  For  cities  having  sinking  funds,  provision  should  be  made 
for  their  continuation  and  management  until  maturity.  The  sinking 
fund  board  may  consist  of  the  mayor,  the  director  of  finance  and  three 
other  members  appointed  by  the  council  for  a  term  of  four  years,  to 
serve  without  compensation. 

42 


1  Sec.  57.    Temporary  Loans.    Money  may  be  borrowed 

2  in  anticipation  of  the  receipts  from  taxes  during  any  fiscal 

3  year,  by  the  issue  of  notes,  certificates  of  indebtedness  or 

4  revenue  bonds ;  but  the  aggregate  amount  of  such  loans  at 

5  any  time  outstanding  shall  not  exceed  per  cent  of 

6  the  receipts  from  taxes  during  the  preceding  fiscal  year; 

7  and  all  such  loans  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  receipts  from 

8  taxes  for  the  fiscal  year  in  which  they  are  issued.    If  upon 

9  the  day  of                      ,  there  shall  be 

10  any  outstanding  loans  or  notes  for  money  borrowed  in  antici- 

11  pation  of  taxes  prior  to  the  adoption  of  this  charter,  such 

12  loans  or  any  part  thereof  may  be  renewed  or  refunded  by 

13  the  issue  of  notes,  certificates  of  indebtedness  or  revenue 

14  bonds,  payable  in  equal  annual  instalments  with  interest, 

15  for  not  more  than  five  successive  years.    No  temporary  loans 

16  authorized  by  this  section  shall  be  made  without  public 

17  notice  at  least  two  weeks  before  final  action  by  the  council, 

18  and  the  approval  of  two-thirds  of  all  the  members  of  the 

19  council. 

20  Sec.  58.    Restrictions  on  Loans  and  Credit.    No  money 

21  shall  be  borrowed  by  the  city  except  for  the  issue  of  bonds 

22  or  temporary  loans,  as  authorized  by  sections  56  and  57  of 

23  this  charter,  and  subject  to  the  limitations  prescribed  by 

24  law  and  this  charter.    The  credit  of  the  city  shall  not  in  any 

25  manner  be  given  or  loaned  to  or  in  aid  of  any  individual, 

26  association  or  corporation,  except  that  suitable  provision 

27  may  be  made  for  the  aid  and  support  of  its  poor. 

28  Sec.  59.    Collection  and  Custody  of  City  Moneys.  All 

29  taxes,  special  assessments,  and  license  fees  accruing  to  the 

30  city  shall  be  collected  by  officers  of  the  department  of 

31  finance.    All  moneys  received  by  any  officer  or  employe  of 

32  the  city  for  or  in  connection  with  the  business  of  the  city 

33  shall  be  paid  promptly  into  the  city  treasury,  and  shall  be 

34  deposited  with  such  responsible  banking  institutions  as  fur- 

35  nish  such  security  as  the  council  may  determine  and  shall 

36  pay  the  highest  rate  of  interest,  and  all  such  interest  shall 

43 


1  accrue  to  the  benefit  of  the  city.    The  council  shall  pro- 

2  vide  by  ordinance  for  the  prompt  and  regular  payment  and 

3  deposit  of  all  city  moneys  as  required  by  this  section. 

4  Sec.  60.    Contracts  and  Purchases.    No  continuing  con- 

5  tract  (which  involves  the  payment  of  money  out  of  the  appro- 

6  priations  of  more  than  two  years)  shall  be  made  for  a  period 

7  of  more  than  ten  years  except  public  utility  franchises ;  and 

8  no  such  contract  shall  be  valid  without  public  notice  at 

9  least  two  weeks  before  final  action  of  the  council  and  the 

10  approval! of  two-thirds  of  all  the  members  of  the  council,  or 

11  submission  to  the  electors  of  the  city  at  a  regular  or  special 

12  election  and  the  approval  of  a  majority  of  those  voting 

13  thereon. 

14  Any  public  work  or  improvement  costing  more  than  one 

15  thousand  dollars  shall  be  executed  by  contract,  except  where 

16  a  specific  work  or  improvement  is  authorized  by  the  council 

17  based  on  detailed  estimates  submitted  by  the  department 

18  authorized  to  execute  such  work  or  improvement.    All  con- 

19  tracts  for  more  than  one  thousand  dollars  shall  be  awarded 

20  to  the  lowest  responsible  bidder,  after  public  advertisement 

21  and  competition,  as  may  be  prescribed  by  ordinance.  But 

22  the  city  manager  shall  have  the  power  to  reject  all  the  bids 

23  and  to  advertise  again ;  and  all  advertisements  shall  contain 

24  a  reservation  of  this  right. 

25  Sec.  61.    Payment  of  Claims.    Payments  by  the  city 

26  shall  be  made  only  upon  vouchers  certified  by  the  head  of 

27  the  appropriate  department  or  other  division  of  the  city 

28  government,  and  by  means  of  warrants  on  the  city  treasury, 

29  issued  by  the  director  of  finance  and  countersigned  by  the 

30  city  manager.    The  director  of  finance  shall  examine  all  pay 

31  rolls,  bills  and  other  claims  and  demands  against  the  city; 

32  and  shall  issue  no  warrant  for  payment  unless  he  finds  that 

33  the  claim  is  in  proper  form,  correctly  computed  and  duly 

34  certified;  that  it  is  justly  and  legally  due  and  payable;  that 

35  an  appropriation  has  been  made  therefor  which  has  not  been 

36  exhausted  or  that  the  payment  has  been  otherwise  legally 

44 


1  authorized;  and  that  there  is  money  in  the  city  treasury 

2  to  make  payment.  He  may  require  any  claimant  to  make 
S  oath  to  the  validity  of  a  claim.    He  may  investigate  any 

4  claim,  and  for  such  purposes  may  examine  witnesses  under 

5  oath;  and  if  he  finds  it  is  fraudulent,  erroneous  or  otherwise 

6  invalid,  shall  not  issue  a  warrant  therefor. 

7  Sec.  62.    Audit  of  Accounts.    Upon  the  death,  resigna- 

8  tion,  removal  or  expiration  of  the  term  of  any  officer  of  the 

9  city,  other  than  the  director  of  finance,  the  director  of 

10  finance  shall  make  an  audit  and  investigation  of  the  accounts 

11  of  such  officer,  and  shall  report  to  the  city  manager  and 

12  council. 

13  As  soon  as  practicable  after  the  close  of  each  fiscal  year, 

14  an  annual  audit  shall  be  made  of  all  the  accounts  of  all  city 

15  officers ;  and  upon  the  death,  resignation,  removal  or  expira- 

16  tion  of  the  term  of  the  director  of  finance,  an  audit  shall  be 

17  made  of  his  accounts.    Such  audits  shall  be  made  under  the 

18  provisions  of  any  law  for  the  inspection  and  audit  of  muni- 

19  cipal  accounts  by  state  officers ;  and  if  there  is  no  such  state 

20  inspection  such  audits  shall  be  made  by  qualified  public 

21  accountants,  selected  by  the  council,  who  have  no  personal 

22  interest,  direct  or  indirect,  in  the  financial  affairs  of  the 

23  city  or  any  of  its  officers  or  employes.  The  council  may 
24i  at  any  time  provide  for  an  examination  or  audit  of  the 
25  accounts  of  any  officer  or  department  of  the  city  government. 


45 


PUBLIC  UTILITIES.20 

1  Sec.  63.     Granted  by  Ordinance.     All  public  utility 

2  franchises  and  all  renewals,  extensions   and  amendments 

3  thereof  shall  be  granted  or  made  only  by  ordinance;  but  no 

4  such  proposed  ordinance  shall  be  adopted  until  it  has  been 

5  printed  in  full  and  until  a  printed  report  containing  recom- 

6  mendations  thereon  shall  have  been  made  to  the  council  by 

7  the  city  manager  [or  the  bureau  of  franchises],  until  ade- 

8  quate  public  hearings  have  thereafter  been  held  on  such  ordi- 

9  nance  and  until  at  least  two  weeks  after  its  official  publica- 

10  tion  in  final  form.    No  public  utility  franchise  shall  be  trans- 

11  ferable  except  with  the  approval  of  the  council  expressed 

12  by  ordinance;  and  copies  of  all  transfers  and  mortgages  or 

Note  20.  The  public  utility  and  franchise  policy  embodied  in  a 
model  city  charter  should  be  so  formulated  as  to  conserve  and  further 
the  following  purposes: 

I.  To  secure  to  the  people  of  the  city  the  best  public  utility  serv- 
ice that  is  practicable. 

II.  To  secure  and  preserve  to  the  city  as  a  municipal  corporation 
the  fullest  possible  control  of  the  streets  and  of  their  special  uses. 

III.  To  remove  as  far  as  practicable  the  obstacles  in  the  way  of 
the  extension  of  municipal  ownership  and  operation  of  public  utilities, 
and  to  render  practicable  the  success  of  such  ownership  and  operation 
when  undertaken. 

IV.  To  secure  for  the  people  of  the  city  public  utility  rates  as  low 
as  practicable,  consistent  with  the  realization  of  the  three  purposes 
above  set  forth. 

It  should  be  no  part  of  such  policy  to  secure  compensation  for 
franchises  or  special  revenues  for  general  city  purposes  by  an  indirect 
tax  upon  the  consumers  of  public  utility  services. 

In  formulating  a  policy  to  carry  out  the  four  purposes  above 
stated  the  following  principles  should  be  recognized: 

1.  Each  utility  serving  an  urban  community  should  be  treated  as 
far  as  practicable  as  a  monopoly  with  the  obligations  of  a  monopoly; 
and  its  operation  within  the  city  should  be  based  as  far  as  practicable 
upon  a  single  comprehensive  ordinance  or  franchise  grant  uniform  in 
its  application  to  all  parts  of  the  city  and  to  all  extensions  of  plant 
and  service. 

2.  Every  franchise  should  be  revocable  by  the  city  upon  just  com- 
pensation being  paid  to  its  owners,  when  the  city  is  prepared  to  under- 
take public  ownership. 

3.  The  control  of  the  location  and  character  of  public  utility  fix- 
tures, the  character  and  amount  of  service  rendered  and  the  rates 
charged  therefor  should  be  reserved  to  the  city,  subject  to  reasonable 
review  by  the  courts  or  a  state  utilities  commission  where  one  exists. 

4.  The  granting  and  enforcement  of  franchises  and  the  regulation 
of  utilities  operating  thereunder  should  be  subject  to  adequate  public 
scrutiny  and  discussion  and  should  receive  full  consideration  by  an 


46 


1  other  documents  affecting  the  title  or  use  of  public  utilities 

2  shall  be  filed  with  the  city  manager  within  ten  days  after 

3  the  execution  thereof. 

4  Sec.  64.  Term  and  Plain  of  Purchase.  Any  public  utility 

5  franchise  may  be  terminated  by  ordinance  at  specified  inter- 

6  vals  of  not  more  than  five  years  after  the  beginning  of  opera- 

7  tion,  whenever  the  city  shall  determine  to  acquire  by  condem- 

8  nation  or  otherwise  the  property  of  such  utility  necessarily 

9  used  in  or  conveniently  useful  for  the  operation  thereof 

10  within  the  city  limits.21     The  method  of  determining  the 

11  price  to  be  paid  for  the  public  utility  property  shall  be  fixed 

12  in  the  ordinance  granting  the  franchise. 

13  Sec.  65.   Right  of  Regulation.    All  grants,  renewals,  ex- 

14  tensions  or  amendments  of  public  utility  franchises,  whether 

15  so  provided  in  the  ordinance  or  not,  shall  be  subject  to  the 

16  right  of  the  city: 

17  (a)     To  repeal  the  same  by  ordinance  at  any  time  for 

18  misuse  or  non-use,  or  for  failure  to  begin  construction  within 

19  the  time  prescribed,  or  otherwise  to  comply  with  the  terms 

20  prescribed ; 

21  (b)     To  require  proper  and  adequate  extensions  of  plant 

22  and  service,  and  the  maintenance  of  the  plant  and  fixtures  at 

23  the  highest  practicable  standard  of  efficiency; 

24  (c)    To  establish  reasonable  standards  of  service  and 

25  quality  of  products  and  prevent  unjust  discrimination  in 

26  service  or  rates  : 22 

expert  bureau  of  the  city  government  established  and  maintained  for 
that  purpose,  or  in  case  the  maintenance  of  such  bureau  is  imprac- 
ticable, by  an  officer  or  committee  designated  for  the  purpose. 

5.  Private  investments  in  public  utilities  should  be  treated  as  in- 
vestments in  aid  of  public  credit  and  subject  to  public  control,  and 
should  be  safeguarded  in  every  possible  way  and  the  rate  of  return 
allowed  thereon  should  be  reduced  to  the  minimum  return  necessary  in 
the  case  of  safe  investments  with  a  fixed  and  substantially  assured 
fair  earning  power. 

Note  21.  Where  a  term  limit  for  the  franchise  is  desired,  provision 
should  be  made  either  for  amortization  of  the  investment,  or  at  least 
that  portion  of  it  within  the  limits  of  public  streets  and  places,  during 
the  term  of  the  grant,  or  for  purchase  of  the  physical  property  at  the 
end  of  the  term. 

Note  22.  A  franchise  should  include  provisions  for  the  readjustment 
of  rates  from  time  to  time,  or  for  the  accumulation  of  surplus  earnings 
for  the  purchase  of  the  property  in  case  rates  are  fixed  for  a  long  period 
in  the  grant. 


4r7 


1  (d)    To  prescribe  the  form  of  accounts  and  at  any  time 

2  to  examine  and  audit  the  accounts  and  other  records  of  any 

3  such  utility  and  to  require  annual  and  other  reports  by  each 

4  such  public  utility;  Provided,  that  if  a  public  service  com- 

5  mission  or  any  other  authority  shall  be  given  the  power  by 

6  law  to  prescribe  the  forms  of  accounts  for  public  utilities 

7  throughout,  the  state  or  throughout  any  district  of  which 

8  the  city  is  a  part,  the  forms  so  prescribed  shall  be  controlling 

9  so  far  as  they  go,  but  the  council  may  prescribe  more  &e- 

10  tailed  forms  for  the  utilities  within  its  jurisdiction; 

11  (e)     To  impose  such  other  regulations  as  may  be  con- 

12  ducive  to  the  safety,  welfare  and  accommodation  of  the 

13  public. 

14  Sec.  66.    Consents  of  Property  Owners.    The  consent  of 

15  abutting  and  adjacent  property  owners  shall  not  be  required 

16  for  the  construction,  extension,  maintenance  or  operation  of 

17  any  public  utility; 23  but  any  such  property  owner  shall  be 

18  entitled  to  recover  from  the  owner  of  such  public  utility  the 

19  actual  amount  of  damages  to  such  property  on  account 

20  thereof  less  any  benefits  received  therefrom;  Provided,  suit  is 

21  commenced  within  two  years  after  the  damage  is  begun. 

22  Sec.  67.    Revocable  Permits.    Permits  revocable  at  the 

23  will  of  the  council  for  such  minor  or  temporary  public  utility 

24  privileges  as  may  be  specified  by  general  ordinance  may  be 

25  granted  and  revoked  by  the  council  from  time  to  time  in 

26  accordance  with  the  terms  and  conditions  to  be  prescribed 

27  thereby;  and  such  permits  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  fran- 

28  chises  as  the  term  is  used  in  this  charter.    Such  general 

29  ordinance,  however,  shall  be  subject  to  the  same  procedure 

30  as  an  ordinance  granting  a  franchise  and  shall  not  be  passed 

31  as  an  emergency  measure. 


Note  23.  In  some  states  there  are  constitutional  provisions  requir- 
ing the  consent  of  adjacent  property  owners  for  the  construction  and 
operation  of  street  railways.  The  constitution  of  New  York  requires 
such  consent,  or  in  lieu  thereof  approval  of  the  proposed  construction 
by  commissioners  appointed  by  the  appellate  division  of  the  Supreme 
Court,  and  confirmed  by  the  Court.  Some  such  provision  as  the  latter 
may  be  desirable. 

48 


1  Sec.  68.    Extensions.    All  extensions  of  public  utilities 

%  within  the  city  limits  shall  become  a  part  of  the  aggregate 

3  property  of  the  public  utility,  shall  be  operated  as  such, 

4  and  shall  be  subject  to  all  the  obligations  and  reserved  rights 

5  contained  in  this  charter  and  in  any  original  grant  hereafter 

6  made.    The  right  to  use  and  maintain  any  extension  shall 

7  terminate  with  the  original  grant  and  shall  be  terminable  as 

8  provided  in  section  64  hereof.    In  case  of  an  extension  of  a 

9  public  utility  operated  under  a  franchise  hereafter  granted, 

10  then  such  right  shall  be  terminable  at  the  same  times  and 

11  under  the  same  conditions  as  the  original  grant. 

12  Sec.  69.    Other  Conditions.    Every  public  utility  fran- 

13  chise  hereafter  granted  shall  be  held  subject  to  all  the  terms 

14  and  conditions  contained  in  sections-  63  to  72  hereof,  whether 

15  or  not  such  terms  are  specifically  mentioned  in  such  franchise. 

16  Nothing  in  this  charter  shall  operate  to  limit  in  any  way,  ex- 

17  cept  as  specifically  stated,  the  discretion  of  the  council  or 

18  the  electors  of  the  city  in  imposing  terms  and  conditions  in 

19  connection  with  any  franchise  grant. 

20  Sec.  70.    Franchise  Records.    Within  six  months  after 

21  this  charter  takes  effect  every  public  utility  and  every 

22  owner  of  a  public  utility  franchise  shall  file  with  the  city,  as 

23  may  be  prescribed  by  ordinance,  certified  copies  of  all  the 

24  franchises  owned  or  claimed,  or  under  which  any  such 

25  utility  is  operated.    The  city  shall  compile  and  maintain  a 

26  public  record  of  all  public  utility  franchises  and  of  all  pub- 

27  .  lie  utility  fixtures  in  the  streets  of  the  city. 

28  Sec.  71.    Bureau  of  Franchises  and  Public  Utilities. 

29  There  shall  be  established  by  ordinance  a  bureau  of  fran- 

30  chises  and  public  utilities,  at  the  head  of  which  shall  be  an 

31  officer  to  be  appointed  by  the  city  manager.24    Such  officer 

Note  24.  In  the  smaller  cities,  say,  of  less  than  50,000  population, 
it  may  not  be  feasible  to  maintain  a  separate  bureau  of  franchises  and 
public  utilities,  but  in  every  city  where  there  is  no  such  bureau  the 
duties  described  in  this  section  should  be  specifically  imposed  upon  the 
city  manager.  The  bureau,  when  one  exists,  will  be  a  part  of  the  de- 
partment of  public  works  and  utilities;  but  in  the  large  cities  it  may 
be  found  desirable  to  create  a  separate  department  of  utilities  as  sug- 
gested in  note  16. 

49 


1  shall  be  an  expert  in  franchise  and  public  utility  matters, 

2  and  he  shall  be  provided  with  such  expert  and  other  assist- 

3  ance  as  is  necessary  to  enable  him  to  perform  his  duties.  It 

4  shall  be  the  duty  of  such  officer  and  bureau  to  investigate 

5  and  report  on  all  proposed  ordinances  relating  to  public 

6  utilities,  to  exercise  a  diligent  oversight  over  the  operation 

7  of  all  public  utilities  operated  under  franchises,  to  report 

8  thereon  with  recommendations  to  the  city  manager,  to  rep- 

9  resent  the  city  in  all,  except  legal,  proceedings  before  any 

10  state  public  utilities  commission  involving  the  public  utilities 

11  within  the  city,  and  to  perform  such  other  duties  under  the 

12  direction  of  the  city  manager  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the 

13  council. 

14  Sec.  72.    Accounts  of  Municipally  owned  Utilities.  Ac- 

15  counts  shall  be  kept  for  each  public  utility  owned  or  oper- 

16  ated  by  the  city,  distinct  from  other  city  accounts  and  in 

17  such  manner  as  to  show  the  true  and  complete  financial  re- 

18  suit  of  such  city  ownership,  or  ownership  and  operation,  in- 

19  eluding  all  assets,  liabilities,  revenues  and  expenses.  Such 

20  accounts  shall  show  the  actual  cost  to  the  city  of  each 

21  public  utility  owned;   the  cost  of  all  extensions,  addi- 

22  tions  and  improvements ;  all  expenses  of  maintenance ;  the 

23  amounts  set  aside  for  sinking  fund  purposes ;  and,  in  the 

24  case  of  city  operation,  all  operating  expenses  of  every  de- 

25  scription.    The  accounts  shall  show  as  nearly  as  possible  the 

26  value  of  any  service  furnished  to  or  rendered  by  any  such 

27  public  utility  by  or  to  any  other  city  or  governmental  de- 

28  partment.    The  accounts  shall  also  show  a  proper  allow- 

29  ance  for  depreciation,  insurance  and  interest  on  the  invest- 

30  ment  and  estimates  of  the  amount  of  taxes  that  would  be 

31  chargeable  against  the  property  if  privately  owned.  The 

32  council  shall  annually  cause  to  be  made  and  printed  for 

33  public  distribution  a  report  showing  the  financial  results 

34  of  such  city  ownership  or  ownership  and  operation,  which 

35  report  shall  give  the  information  specified  in  this  section 

36  and  such  other  information  as  the  council  shall  deem  ex- 

37  pedient. 

50 


CITY  PLANNING. 

1  Sec.  73.    Creation  of  a  City  Planning  Board.  There 

2  shall  be  a  city  planning  board  of  three  members,  consisting 

3  of  the  director  of  public  works  and  utilities  and  two  citizen 

4  members  chosen  because  of  their  knowledge  of  city  planning.25 

5  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  board  to  keep  itself  informed  of 

6  the  progress  of  city  planning  in  this  and  other  countries, 

7  to  make  studies  and  recommendations  for  the  improvement 

8  of  the  plan  of  the  city  with  a  view  to  the  present  and  future 

9  movement  of  traffic,  the  convenience,  amenity,  health,  recrea- 

10  tion,  general  welfare  and  other  needs  of  the  city  dependent 

11  on  the  city  plan ;  to  consider  and  report  upon  the  designs  and 

12  their  relations  to  the  city  plan  of  all  new  public  ways,  lands, 

13  buildings,  bridges  and  all  other  public  places  and  structures, 

14  of  additions  to  and  alterations  in  those  already  existing,  and 

15  of  the  layout  or  plotting  of  new  subdivisions  of  the  city,  or 

16  of  territory  adjacent  to  or  near  the  city. 

17  Sec.  74.    Power  of  Board.    All  acts  of  the  council  or  of 

18  any  other  branch  of  the  city  government  affecting  the  city 

19  plan  shall  be  submitted  to  the  board  for  report  and  recom- 

20  mendations.    The  council  may  at  any  time  call  upon  the 

21  board  to  report  with  recommendations,  and  the  board  of  its 

22  own  volition  may  also  report  to  the  council  with  recommen- 

23  dations  on  any  matter  which,  in  the  opinion  of  either  body, 

24  affects  the  plan  of  the  city. 

25  Any  matter  referred  by  the  council  to  the  board  shall 

26  be  acted  upon  by  the  board  within  thirty  days  of  the  date 

27  of  reference,  unless  a  longer  or  shorter  period  is  specified. 

28  No  action  by  the  council  involving  any  points  hereinbefore 

29  set  forth  shall  be  legal  or  binding  until  it  has  been  referred 

30  to  the  board  and  until  the  recommendations  of  the  board 

31  thereon  have  been  accepted  or  rejected  by  the  council. 


Note  25.  In  larger  cities  having  a  separate  director  of  utilities  a 
board  of  five  members,  consisting  of  the  director  of  public  works,  the 
director  of  utilities  and  three  citizen  members,  is  recommended. 


51 


1  Sec.  75.    Annual  Report.    The  board  shall  submit  to 

2  the  council  an  annual  report  summarizing  the  activities  of 

3  the  board  for  the  fiscal  year,  the  recommendations  made  by 

4  it  to  the  council  during  the  year  and  the  action  of  the  coun- 

5  cil  during  the  year  on  any  and  all  recommendations  made  by 

6  the  board  in  that  or  former  years.    The  annual  report  of 

7  the  board  shall  also  contain  a  program  for  improvements  to 

8  the  city  plan  year  by  year  during  the  three  years  next  en- 

9  suing,  with  estimates  of  the  cost  thereof  and  recommenda- 

10  tions  as  to  how  the  cost  shall  be  met. 

11  Sec.  76.    Secretary  of  the  Board.    The  board  shall  ap- 

12  point  as  secretary  a  person  of  skill  and  experience  in  city 

13  planning  and  may  employ  consulting  city  planning  experts 

14  as  need  may  arise.    The  city  engineer  shall  serve  as  chief 

15  engineer  of  the  city  planning  board,  and  it  shall  be  his  par- 

16  ticular  duty  to  make  recommendations  designed  to  bring  all 

17  the  engineering  works  of  the  city  into  harmony  as  parts  of 

18  one  comprehensive  plan.    The  executive  health  officer  of  the 

19  city  shall  advise  the  planning  board  from  time  to  time  of 

20  any  municipal  improvements  within  the  scope  of  the  board 

21  which,  in  his  opinion,  would  improve  the  healthfulness  of  the 

22  city.    The  board  shall  have  power  to  call  upon  any  branch 

23  of  the  city  government  at  any  time  for  information  and 

24  advice  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  board  will  insure  the  effici- 

25  ency  of  its  work.26 

Note  26.  In  some  places  it  may  be  desirable  to  give  the  city 
planning  board  some  of  the  powers  conferred  on  the  existing  municipal 
art  commissions  in  the  United  States.  These  powers  relate  to  the 
aesthetic  features  of  public  buildings,  bridges  and  other  public  struc- 
tures and  embrace  the  acceptance  or  rejection  of  works  of  art  or  de- 
signs therefor  to  be  placed  in  public  buildings  or  in  other  places  within 
the  city.  The  section  in  the  Cleveland  charter  relating  to  city  planning 
commission  and  the  ordinance  based  on  it  are  commended  for  careful 
consideration,  especially  the  manner  provided  for  the  effective  control 
of  land  subdivision. 


52 


MISCELLANEOUS  PROVISIONS. 


1  Sec.  77.    Publicity  of  Accounts.    All  accounts  and  the 

2  records  of  every  office  and  department  of  the  city  shall  be 

3  open  to  the  public  at  all  reasonable  times  under  reasonable 

4  regulations,  except  such  records  and  documents  where  the 

5  disclosure  of  the  information  contained  therein  would  tend 

6  to  defeat  the  lawful  purpose  of  the  officer  or  department  with- 

7  holding  them  from  access  to  the  public. 

8  Sec.  78.  No  Personal  Interest.  No  member  of  the  coun- 

9  cil  nor  any  officer  or  employe  of  the  city  shall  have  a  financial 

10  interest,  direct  or  indirect,  in  any  contract  with  the  city,  or 

11  be  financially  interested,  directly  or  indirectly,  in  the  sale  to 

12  the  city  of  any  land,  materials,  supplies  or  services,  except 

13  on  behalf  of  the  city  as  a  member  of  the  council,  officer  or 

14  employe;  Provided,  that  the  ownership  of  less  than  5  per 

15  cent  of  the  stock  or  shares  of  a  corporation  or  association 

16  with  which  a  contract  may  be  made  shall  not  be  considered 

17  as  involving  an  interest  in  the  contract  within  the  meaning 

18  of  this  section.    No  officer  or  employe  of  a  public  utility 

19  operating  in  the  city  shall  be  a  member  of  the  council.  Any 

20  wilful  violation  of  this  section  shall  constitute  malfeasance 

21  in  office,  and  any  member  of  the  council,  officer  or  employe 

22  found  guilty  thereof  shall  thereby  forfeit  his  office  or  posi- 

23  tion.    Any  violation  of  this  section,  with  the  knowledge  ex- 

24  pressed  or  implied,  of  the  person  or  corporation  contracting 

25  with  the  city,  shall  render  the  contract  involved  voidable  by 

26  the  city  manager  or  the  council. 

27  Sec.  79.    When  Charter  Shall  Take  Effect.    For  the 

28  purpose  of  nominating  and  electing  officers  as  provided 

29  herein,  this  charter  shall  take  effect  from  and  after  the  time 

30  of  its  approval  by  the  electors  of  the  city.    For  the  purpose 

31  of  exercising  the  powers  of  the  city,  establishing  depart- 

32  ments,  divisions  and  offices,  and  distributing  the  functions 

33  thereof,  and  for  all  other  purposes,  it  shall  take  effect  on  the 
34*  first  day  of 

53 


APPENDIX  A. 
THE  HARE  SYSTEM  OF  PROPORTIONAL 
REPRESENTATION. 

(To  be  inserted,  if  desired,  after  section  10  of  the  charter) 

1  Nomination  for  candidates  for  council  shall  be  made  ac- 

2  cording  to  the  provisions  of  Sections  8,  9  and  10  of  this 

3  charter. 

4  Section  1.    Marking  the  Ballot.    Ballots  for  the  elec- 

5  tion  of  members  of  the  council  shall  be  marked  according  to 

6  the  following  rules,  which  shall  be  printed  at  the  top  of  each 

7  ballot  under  the  head  of  "Directions  to  Voters." 

8  Put  the  figure  1  opposite  the  name  of  your  first 

9  choice  for  the  council.     If  you  want  to  express  also 

10  second,  third,  and  other  preferences,  do  so  by  putting 

11  the  figure  2  opposite  the  name  of  your  second  choice, 

12  the  figure  3  opposite  the  name  of  your  third  choice, 

13  and  so  on.    You  may  express  thus  as  many  preferences 

14  as  you  please.  This  ballot  will  not  be  counted  for  your 
,  15  second  choice  unless  it  is  found  that  it  cannot  help  your 

16  first  ;  it  will  not  be  counted  for  your  third  choice  unless 

17  it  is  found  that  it  cannot  help  either  your  first  or  your 

18  second,  etc.    The  more  choices  you  express,  the  surer 

19  you  are  to  make  your  ballot  count  for  one  of  the  candi- 

20  dates  you  favor. 

21  A  ballot  is  spoiled  if  the  figure  1  is  put  opposite  more 

22  than  one  name.    If  you  spoil  this  ballot,  tear  it  across 

23  once,  return  it  to  the  election  officer  in  charge  of  the 

24  ballots,  and  get  another  from  him. 

25  Sec.  2.    Rules  for  Counting  the  Ballots.    Ballots  cast 

26  for  the  election  of  members  of  the  council  shall  be  counted 

27  and  the  results  determined  by  the  election  authorities  ac- 

28  cording  to  the  following  rules : 

29  (a)     On  all  ballots  a  cross  shall  be  considered  equiva- 

30  lent  to  the  figure  1.    So  far  as  may  be  consistent  with  the 

31  general  election  laws,  every  ballot  from  which  the  first  choice 

32  of  the  voter  can  be  clearly  ascertained  shall  be  considered 

33  valid. 

54 


1  (b)     The  ballots  shall  first  be  sorted  and  counted  at  the 

2  several  voting  precincts  according  to  the  first  choices  of 

3  the  voters.    At  each  voting  precinct  the  first-choice  ballots 

4  cast  for  each  candidate  shall  be  put  up  in  a  separate  pack- 

5  age,  which  shall  be  properly  marked  on  the  outside  to  show 

6  the  number  of  ballots  therein  and  the  name  of  the  candidate 

7  for  whom  cast.    The  ballots  declared  invalid  by  the  pre- 

8  cinct  officials  shall  also  be  put  up  in  a  separate  package, 

9  properly  marked  on  the  outside.    All  the  packages  of  the 

10  precinct,  together  with  a  record  of  the  precinct  count, 

11  shall  be  forwarded  to  the  general  election  authorities  of  the 

12  city  as  directed  by  those  authorities,  and  the  counting  of  the 

13  ballots  shall  proceed  under  their  direction. 

14  (c)     First-choice  votes  for  each  candidate  shall  be  added 

15  and  tabulated  as  the  first  count. 

16  (d)     The  whole  number  of  valid  ballots  shall  then  be 

17  divided  by  a  number  greater  by  one  than  the  number  of 

18  seats  to  be  filled.    The  next  whole  number  larger  than  the 

19  quotient  thus  obtained  shall  be  the  quota  or  constituency. 

20  (e)     All  candidates  the  number  of  whose  votes  on  the 

21  first  count  is  equal  to  or  greater  than  the  quota  shall  then 

22  be  declared  elected. 

23  (f)     All  votes  obtained  by  any  candidate  in  excess  of 

24  the  quota  shall  be  termed  the  surplus  of  that  candidate. 

25  (g)     The  surpluses  shall  be  transferred,  the  largest 

26  surplus  first,  then  the  next  largest,  and  so  on.    Each  ballot 

27  of  the  surplus  that  is  capable  of  transfer  shall  be  trans- 

28  ferred  to  and  added  to  the  votes  of  the  continuing  candidate, 

29  marked  on  it  as  the  next  preference. 

30  (h)     "Ballots  capable  of  transfer"  means  ballots  from 

31  which  the  next  lower  choice  of  the  voter  for  some  continu- 

32  ing  candidate  can  be  ascertained.    "Continuing  candidates" 

33  means  candidates  as  yet  neither  elected  nor  defeated. 

34  (i)     The  particular  ballots  to  be  taken  for  transfer  as 

35  the  surplus  of  such  candidate  shall  be  obtained  by  taking 

36  as  nearly  an  equal  number  of  ballots  as  possible  from  the 

55 


1  first-choice  ballots,  capable  of  transfer,  that  have  been  cast 

2  for  the  candidate  in  each  of  the  different  precincts  of  the 

3  city.    All  such  surplus  ballots  shall  be  taken  without  selec- 

4  tion  as  they  may  happen  to  come  in  the  different  packages. 

5  (j)     After  the  transfer  of  all  surpluses,  the  votes  stand- 

6  ing  to  the  credit  of  each  candidate  shall  be  counted  and 

7  tabulated  as  the  second  count. 

8  (k)     After  the  tabulation  of  the  second  count  (or  after 

9  that  of  the  first  count  if  no  candidate  received  a  surplus 

10  on  the  first)  the  candidate  lowest  on  the  poll  as  it  then 

11  stands    shall   be   declared   defeated   and    all   his  ballots 

12  capable  of  transfer  shall  be  transferred  to  the  continuing 

13  candidates,  each  ballot  being  transferred  to  the  credit  of 

14  that  continuing  candidate  preferred  by  the  voter.  After 

15  the  transfer  of  these  ballots  a  fresh  count  and  tabulation 

16  shall  be  made.     In  this  manner  candidates  shall  be  suc- 

17  cessively  declared  defeated,  and  their  ballots  capable  of 

18  transfer  transferred  to  continuing  candidates,  and  a  fresh 

19  count  and  tabulation  made.    After  any  tabulation  the  can- 

20  didate  to  be  declared  defeated  shall  be  the  one  then  lowest 

21  on  the  poll. 

22  (1)    Whenever  in  the  transfer  of  a  surplus  or  of  the 

23  ballots  of  a' defeated  candidate  the  votes  of  any  candidate 

24  shall  equal  the  quota,  he  shall  immediately  be  declared  elected 

25  and  no  further  transfer  to  him  shall  be  made. 

26  (m)    When  candidates  to  the  number  of  the  seats  to 

27  be  filled  have  received  a  quota  and  therefore  have  been  de- 

28  clared  elected,  all  other  candidates  shall  be  declared  defeated 

29  and  the  count  shall  be  at  an  end;  and  when  the  number  of 

30  continuing  candidates  shall  be  reduced  to  the  number  of 

31  seats  to  be  filled,  those  candidates  shall  be  declared  elected 

32  whether  they  have  received  the  full  quota  or  not  and  the 

33  count  shall  be  at  an  end. 

34  (n)     If  at  any  count  two  or  more  candidates  at  the 

35  bottom  of  the  poll  have  the  same  number  of  votes,  that  can- 

36  didate  shall  first  be  declared  defeated  who  was  lowest  at  the 


56 


1  next  preceding  count  at  which  their  votes  were  different. 

2  Should  it  happen  that  the  votes  of  these  candidates  are 

3  equal  to  each  other  on  all  counts,  lots  shall  be  drawn  to 

4  decide  which  candidate  shall  next  be  declared  defeated. 

5  (o)    In  the  transfer  of  the  ballots  of  any  candidate  who 

6  has  received  ballots  by  transfer  those  ballots  shall  first  be 

7  transferred  upon  which  the  defeated  candidate  was  first 

8  choice  and  the  remaining  ballots  shall  be  transferred  in  the 

9  order  of  the  transfers  by  which  they  were  received  by  the 

10  defeated  candidate. 

11  (p)     On  each  tabulation  a  count  shall  be  kept  of  those 

12  ballots  which  have  not  been  used  in  the  election  of  some 
IS  candidate  and  which  are  not  capable  of  transfer,  under  the 

14  designation  "Non-transferable  ballots." 

15  (q)     So  far  as  may  be  consistent  with  good  order  and 

16  with  convenience  in  the  counting  and  transferring  of  the 

17  ballots,  the  public,  representatives  of  the  press,  and  es- 

18  pecially  the  candidates  themselves  shall  be  afforded  every  fa- 

19  cility  for  being  present  and  witnessing  these  operations.2 

Note  1.  If  it  is  desired  to  make  possible  a  recount  of  the  ballots, 
there  should  be  inserted  here  a  provision  for  the  safekeeping  of  the 
ballots  and  also  the  following  paragraph: 

Every  ballot  that  is  transferred  from  one  candidate  to  another 
shall  be  stamped  or  marked  so  that  its  entire  course  from  candidate  to 
candidate  throughout  the  count  can  be  conveniently  traced.  In  case  a 
recount  of  the  ballots  is  made,  every  ballot  shall  be  made  to  take  in  the 
recount  the  same  course  that  it  took  in  the  first  count  unless  there  is 
discovered  a  mistake  that  requires  its  taking  a  different  course,  in  which 
case  such  mistake  shall  be  corrected  and  any  changes  made  in  the 
course  taken  by  ballots  that  may  be  required  as  a  result  of  such  cor- 
rection. The  particular  ballots  the  course  of  which  is  to  be  changed 
in  the  recount  as  a  result  of  such  correction  shall  be  taken  as  they 
happen  to  come,  without  selection. 

Note  2.  Since  the  members  of  council  elected  by  proportional  rep- 
resentation do  not  represent  the  entire  body  of  the  electorate,  but  each 
member  represents  a  certain  quota  or  group  therein,  it  is  evident  that  a 
recall  by  a  majority  of  the  entire  electorate  of  a  single  councilman  or 
of  any  number  less  than  the  whole  council  would  destroy  the  principle 
of  minority  or  quota  representation.  Provision  may  be  made,  however, 
for  the  recall  of  the  whole  council  and  the  election  of  a  new  one  by 
proportional  representation  at  the  same  election  whereby  any  particular 
members  who  could  no  longer  command  a  quota  of  votes  would  be 
eliminated.  It  should  be  considered  in  this  connection  that  under  pro- 
portional representation  a  member  of  the  council  will  retain  his  seat  as 
long  as  he  retains  the  support  of  a  bare  quota  of  votes.  A  certain 
permanency  of  tenure  is  thus  secured  so  that  frequent  elections  are 
not  so  objectionable  as  under  other  systems,  and  when  terms  are  short 
the  need  of  a  recall  is  less  imperative. 


57 


APPENDIX  B. 


PREFERENTIAL  BALLOT. 

(To  be  inserted,  if  desired,  after  section  10  of  the  charter) 

1  Section  1.  Preparation  of  Ballot.  All  ballots  used  in  elec- 

2  tions  held  under  the  authority  of  this  charter  shall  be  printed 

3  by  the  city  and  shall  contain  the  names  of  the  candidates 

4  without  party  or  other  designation.    The  order  of  arrange- 

5  ment  of  the  names  shall  be  alphabetical  in  rotation ;  that  is, 

6  there  shall  be  as  many  sets  of  ballots  printed  as  there  are 

7  candidates.    Each  set  of  ballots  shall  begin  with  the  name  of 

8  a  different  candidate,  the  other  names  being  arranged  there- 

9  after  in  regular  alphabetical  order,  commencing  with  the 

10  name  next  in  alphabetical  order  after  the  one  that  stands 

11  first  on  that  set  of  ballots.    When  the  last  name  is  reached 

12  in  alphabetical  order  it  shall  be  followed  by  the  name  that 

13  begins  with  the  first  letter  represented  in  the  list  of  names 

14  and  by  the  others  in  regular  order.    The  ballots  so  printed 

15  shall  then  be  combined  in  tablets,  so  as  to  have  the  fewest 

16  possible  ballots  having  the  same  order  of  names  printed 

17  thereon  together  in  the  same  tablet. 

18  Sec.  2.     Arrangement  for  First,  Second  and  Other 

19  Choices.     After  the  column  containing  the  names  of  the 

20  candidates,  arranged  as  indicated,  there  shall  be  printed 

21  three  columns  headed  "first  choice,"  "second  choice,"  and 

22  "other  choices,"  respectively.    Each  voter  shall  be  entitled 

23  to  place  as  many  crosses  in  the  column  marked  "first  choice" 

24  as  there  are  offices  to  be  filled.    He  shall  also  be  entitled  to 

25  place  as  many  crosses  in  the  column  marked  "second  choice" 

26  as  there  are  offices  to  be  filled,  provided  that  he  may  not 

27  mark  a  cross  in  the  column  marked  "second  choice"  after  a 

28  name  for  which  he  has  marked  a  cross  in  the  first  column. 

29  He  may  also  place  in  the  column  marked  "other  choices" 

30  crosses  after  any  names  which  he  had  not  designated  as  first 

31  or  second  choices. 


58 


1  Sec.  S.    Form  of  Ballot.    The  form  of  the  ballot  with 

2  the  voter's  choices  thereon  shall  be  substantially  the  fol- 

3  lowing : 


Regular  (or  Special)  Municipal  Election. 


NAMES  OF  CANDIDATES 

FIRST  CHOICE 

SECOND  CHOICE 

OTHER  CHOICES 

A 

X 

B 

X 

C 

D 

X 

E 

X 

INSTRUCTIONS. 

Vote  your  first  choice  in  the  first  column.  Vote  your  second  choice 
in  the  second  column.  Vote  in  the  third  column  for  any  other  candi- 
dates whom  you  are  willing  to  support. 

Do  not  vote  more  than  one  first  choice  and  one  second  choice  for 
any  one  office. 

If  you  wrongly  mark,  tear  or  deface  this  ballot,  return  it  and 
obtain  another. 

When  more  than  one  candidate  is  to  be  chosen  the  foregoing  in- 
structions must  be  modified  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  sec- 
tion 2. 


4  Sec.  4.    Countmg  of  Ballots.     The  ballots  shall  be 

5  counted  by  adding  up  the  first  choices  cast  for  each  candi- 

6  date.    If  any  candidates  receive  a  number  of  first  choices 

7  equal  to  a  majority  of  all  the  ballots  cast,  they  shall  be  de- 

8  clared  elected  in  the  order  of  the  votes  received.    As  to 

9  candidates  who  have  not  received  such  a  majority,  the  num- 

10  ber  of  second  choices  cast  for  each  candidate  shall  then  be 

11  counted  and  shall  be  added  to  the  number  of  first  choices. 

12  Any  candidates  who  have  then  a  total  of  first  and  second 

13  choices  equal  to  a  majority  of  all  ballots  cast  shall  be  de- 

14  clared  elected  in  the  order  of  the  number  of  votes  received. 

15  If  a  sufficient  number  of  candidates  have  not  yet  received  the 

16  required  majority,  the  other  choices  cast  for  each  candi- 

17  date  shall  be  added  to  his  first  and  second  choices,  and  can- 

18  didates  shall  be  declared  elected  in  the  order  of  the  number 

19  of  votes  received.    In  case  of  a  tie,  the  order  of  precedence 

20  shall  be  determined  by  the  larger  number  of  first  choices  in 

21  the  vote. 

59 


i 


\ 


