ip|lll|i|l|liMpfil| 


-*»>;.     . 


w^ 


The  County 


The  **Dark  Continent"  of  American  Politics 


By 

H.  S.  Gilbertson     Pi^^^^^^j^^y^- 


New  York 
The  National  Short  Ballot  Organization 

1917 


Ubc  "ftnichcrbocfter  press,  l^ew  Hotk 


PREFACE 

The  American  people  have  never  ceased,  nor  do 
they  give  any  signs  of  ceasing,  in  their  effort  to 
master  the  mechanics  of  political  democracy. 
Curiously,  however,  they  have  quite  neglected 
one  of  the  most  promising  of  all  the  approaches  to 
this  study — the  government  of  counties.  It  is  in 
the  belief  that  a  discussion  of  this  subject  would 
tend  to  throw  a  great  new  light  upon  the  "demo- 
cratic experiment**  that  the  author  has  prepared 
this  volume. 

This  is  not  a  hand-book  or  a  treatise  on  counties. 
Such  a  work  cannot  be  successfully  carried  through 
without  a  much  wider  and  more  thorough  research 
into  the  subject  than  has  as  yet  been  attempted. 
The  author  hopes  that  this  present  work  will  do 
something  to  suggest  and  stimulate  such  research. 
In  the  meantime  the  outlines  of  a  very  real  and 
very  important  "county  problem"  are  visible  and 
they  mark  the  scope  of  this  volume. 

The  reader  will  doubtless  note  the  complete 
absence  of  any  discussion  of  the  county  in  its 
relation  to  the  educational  system.  The  explan- 
ation of  this  omission  lies  in  the  great  difficulty 
of  distinguishing  anything  like  a  universal  interest 

iii 

3GU4oO 


iv  PREFACE 

of  the  county  in  this  branch  of  public  adminis- 
tration, apart  from  those  of  the  state  government 
and  of  the  smaller  divisions,  except  in  the  levying 
of  taxes  and  the  distribution  of  tax  money. 

To  Mr.  Richard  S.  Childs,  Secretary  of  The 
Short  Ballot  Organization,  the  author  is  indebted 
for  the  suggestion  that  the  book  should  be  written, 
and  for  criticisms  of  the  manuscript.  Assistance 
of  the  most  helpful  sort  during  the  manuscript 
stage  was  also  rendered  by  Mr.  Herbert  R.  Sands, 
of  the  New  York  Bureau  of  Municipal  Research, 
and  by  Mr.  Otho  G.  Cartwright,  of  the  Westchester 
County  Research  Bureau. 

Inasmuch  also  as  it  has  not  seemed  advisable 
to  encumber  the  text  with  an  excessive  number  of 
footnotes,  the  author  wishes  to  acknowledge 
particularly  his  debt  to  Prof.  John  A.  Fairlie's 
volume,  The  Government  of  Counties^  Towns,  and 
Villages^  which  was  the  source  of  much  of  the 
historical  material,  and  to  Mr.  Earl  W.  Crecraft, 
whose  studies  of  Hudson  County,  N.  J.,  have 
been  drawn  upon  at  considerable  length. 


H.  S.  GiLBERTSON. 


New  York, 

January  15,  1917. 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER 
I.- 

— A  Political  By-way 

•                  • 

PAGE 
I 

-^I.- 

—Just  What  Is  a  Count^^ 

r 

• 

9 

III.- 

—A  Creature  of  Tradition 

I6 

IV.- 

-Falling  Afoul  of  "Democracy"  . 

1 

25 

V.- 

—The  Jungle  . 

»                        •                        < 

34^ 

VI.- 

-A  Base  of  Political  Supplies 

.       43 '/ 

-4II.- 

—Urban  Counties    . 

»                        • 

57  ^ 

VIIL- 

—County  Governments  at  Work 

.       66  V^^ 

IX.- 

—The  Humanitarian  Side 

80 

X.- 

-Roads  and  Bridges 

.       94  • 

XI.- 

-Nullification 

104  % 

XII.- 

-State  Meddling     . 

.     112   V' 

XIII.- 

-State  Guidance     . 

,       120    ^ 

XIV.- 

—Readjustments 

.       129    ^ 

XV.- 

-County  Home  Rule 

.       145    V 

XVI.- 

-Consolidation 

.       151    • 

XVIL- 

—Reconstruction    -. . 

168  V 

vi  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

XVIII. — Scientific  Administration      .         .181 
XIX. — The  County  of  the  Future  .     193 

Appendix   A — ^^Constitutional  County  Home 

Rule  in  California         .     207 

Appendix    B — The    Los    Angeles    County 

Charter  .         .         .     219 

Appendix    C — Proposed  County  Home  Rule 

Amendment  in  New  York     247 

Appendix    D — Proposed    County   Manager 

Law  in  New  York  .     251 

Appendix   E — The  Chief  Medical  Examiner 

IN  New  York  City  .         .     257 

Appendix  F — A  County  Almshouse  in  Texas    266 

Bibliography 275 

Index 285 


The  County 


THE  COUNTY 


CHAPTER  I 

A  POLITICAL  BY-WAY 

To  close  up  the  underground  passages  to  po- 
litical power,  to  open  up  government  and  let  in 
the  daylight  of  popular  opinion  and  criticism, 
to  simplify  organization,  to  make  procedure  more 
direct,  to  fix  unmistakably  the  responsibilities 
of  every  factor  in  the  State;  that  has  been  the 
strategy  of  the  reconstructive  democratic  move- 
ment in  America  in  the  last  fifteen  years.  Four 
hundred  American  cities,  without  regret  and  with 
little  ceremony,  have  cast  aside  the  tradition  that 
complexity  is  the  price  of  liberty.  They  have 
started  afresh  upon  the  principle  that  government 
is  public  business  to  be  administered  as  simply, 
as  directly,  as  openly  and  as  cheaply  as  the  law 
will  allow.  Inasmuch  as  their  former  governments 
were  not  adapted  to  that  ideal,  they  have  hastened 
to  make  them  over.  Contrary  to  prediction, 
the  palladium  of  liberty  has  not  fallen.      Business 


2  TEE  COUNTY 

goes  on  as  usual,  public  business  in  a  way  that 
is  amazingly  satisfactory,  as  compared  with  the 
**good  old"  days. 

Where  will  the  movement  stop?  Have  all 
the  secret  passages  been  closed?  Have  all  the 
dark  alleys  of  local  politics  been  lighted?  Or 
does  work  for  explorers  lie  ahead  ? 

In  191 5  the  constitutional  convention  then  in 
session  at  Albany,  was  surveying  the  foundations 
of  the  political  structure  of  New  York,  under- 
taking to  make  adjustments  to  the  sweeping 
changes  that  had  come  over  the  life  of  the  state 
in  the  previous  twenty-year  period.  Committees 
were  chosen  to  rake  the  far  corners  of  the  system 
for  needed  adjustment.  Hundreds  of  experts 
were  summoned  and  hundreds  of  citizens  volun- 
tarily appeared  to  press  their  views  and  their 
wants.  The  committee  having  in  charge  the 
organization  of  the  state  government  listened  to 
an  ex-president,  the  heads  of  two  leading  univer- 
sities, prominent  efficiency  experts  and  every 
important  state  officer.  The  committee  on  cities 
gave  audience  to  the  mayor  and  chief  legal  offi- 
cers of  every  important  city  in  the  state,  while 
the  conference  of  mayors  was  sufficiently  inter- 
ested to  send  one  of  its  number  to  stump  the  state 
for  an  amendment  which  would  promote  the  weU 
fare  of  New  York  cities.  The  work  of  these 
divisions  of  the  convention  was  of  deepest  con- 
cern to  the  state.  It  received  from  the  press  and 
the  public  no  small  amount  of  interested  comment. 


A  POLITICAL  BY-WAY  3 

There  was  also  a  committee  which  touched  on 
an  interest  that  includes  every  inhabitant — county 
government.  One  might  have  imagined  that  this 
body  too  could  have  attracted  at  least  one  or  two 
celebrities.  There  are  sixty-one  counties  in  New 
York  State.  Everybody  lives  in  one.  They  safe- 
guard property,  personal  and  civil  rights.  But  not 
so.  Two  or  three  public  hearings ;  no  ex-presidents ; 
no  college  heads;  no  considerable  number  of 
interested  private  citizens — such  was  the  tangible 
display  of  awakening  to  the  subject  at  hand. 

At  a  singularly  appropriate  moment,  however, 
a  brand-new  association  of  clerks  of  the  boards  of 
supervisors  was  formed.  Several  members  of 
the  body  appeared  in  person  before  the  conven- 
tion. The  committee  appealed  to  them  to  enrich 
its  fund  of  information  concerning  the  home 
government.  They  were  given  a  free  rein  to  tell 
of  the  needs  of  their  counties. 

In  view  of  collateral  facts,  the  testimony  of 
this  notable  group  of  public  servants  is  peculiarly 
illuminating.  The  representative  of  a  central 
New  York  county  was  there  and  blandly  did  he 
announce  that  his  people  were  perfectly  satisfied 
with  their  county  government;  they  would  not 
dream  of  modifying  it.  The  clerk  from  a  Hudson 
River  county  was  equally  optimistic,  and  went 
to  some  pains  to  show  in  detail  just  how  very 
well  his  county  was  governed.  Similar  testimony 
was  presented  from  a  county  in  the  capital  district. 
Then  up  spoke  the  clerk  from  near  the  borders 


4  THE   COUNTY 

of  Pennsylvania:  the  people  of  this  neighboring 
state  had  conceived  so  great  an  admiration  for 
the  form  of  his  county  government  that  they  were 
longing  to  substitute  it  for  their  own  rather  simpler 
system. 

Now  for  the  collateral  facts.  Not  more  than 
two  months  following  this  hearing,  officers  of 
the  National  Committee  on  Prison  Labor  got 
word  of  misdoings  at  the  jail  in  the  central  New 
York  county  and  succeeded  in  securing  a  Grand 
Jury  investigation.  The  details  of  their  findings 
scarcely  lend  themselves  to  print.  Enough  to 
say  that  the  sheriff's  deputies  had  made  a  practice 
of  allowing  both  men  and  women  prisoners  to 
come  and  go  at  will  and  permitted  most  disrepu- 
table conditions  to  prevail  in  the  prison.  Shortly 
after  the  committee  hearings  the  state  comptroller 
completed  his  investigation  of  the  financial  affairs 
of  the  Hudson  River  county.  His  report  reeks 
with  accounts  of  flagrant  and  intentional  viola- 
tions of  the  laws  on  the  part  of  not  one  but  nearly 
all  of  the  county  officers.  As  for  the  clerk  from 
the  capital  district,  he  was  confronted  at  the 
hearing  itself  with  several  pieces  of  special  legisla- 
tion passed,  at  the  instance  of  the  sheriff  and  the 
superintendent  of  the  poor,  for  the  increase  of 
salaries  of  deputies  over  the  head  of  the  local 
governing  body.  That  this  appeal  was  not  so 
much  in  the  interests  of  the  county  as  of  "political 
expediency"  and  at  the  expense  of  the  taxpayers, 
he   cheerfully  admitted.      But   as  for  the  near- 


A  POLITICAL  BY-WAY  5 

Pennsylvania  county,  that  was  the  earthly  home 
of  a  man  who  had  conceived  a  clever  method  of 
breaking  into  the  county  treasury  by  having  the 
board  of  supervisors  create  for  his  benefit,  contrary 
to  law,  the  position  of  "county  custodian."  Once 
firmly  settled  in  his  new  position  he  persuaded 
the  board  to  turn  over  to  him  (quite  illegally) 
their  responsibility  for  auditing  the  claims  against 
the  county,  and  persuaded  the  county  treasurer 
to  cash  any  warrant  that  might  have  his  "0.  K." 
When  he  had  made  away,  in  this  manner,  with 
some  ninety  thousand  dollars,  the  comptroller 
discovered  his  misdoings.  Of  the  whole  bad  mess, 
the  solution  which  the  "custodian"  selected  was 
suicide.  But  the  government  of  that  county  had 
not  been  fundamentally  changed  to  meet  the  de- 
fects of  organization  revealed  in  these  disclosures. 

A  collection  of  isolated  facts?  Familiar  Ameri- 
can graft  and  inefficiency?  Perhaps.  But  in 
the  cities  and  in  the  states  the  public  has  been 
going  after  such  things.  In  the  counties  of  New 
York  the  people  apparently  did  not  know  that 
such  conditions  were  present.  The  clerks  who 
appeared  at  Albany  and  were,, for  the  most  part, 
the  sole  representatives  of  their  several  counties, 
seem  to  have  told  the  truth,  at  least  about  the 
people's  complacency,  but  they  might  have  been 
more  accurate  and  more  complimentary  if  they 
had  labeled  it  "lack  of  knowledge." 

From  coast  to  coast  a  deep  silence  broods  over 
county  affairs.     Can  it  be  that,  while  cities  have 


6  THE    COUNTY 

been  reveling  in  franchise  scandals  and  police 
have  been  going  into  partnership  with  vice  inter- 
ests, while  state  legislatures  have  been  Hghtly 
voting  away  public  money  on  useless  political 
jobs  and  extravagant  public  institutions,  the 
county  alone  is  free  from  every  breath  of  scandal 
and  is  a  model  of  official  uprightness?  Scores 
of  municipal  leagues  and  city  clubs  and  bureaus 
of  municipal  research  are  delving  into  city  affairs 
and  finding  opportunities  for  betterment  at  every 
turn  of  the  hand.  But  the  number  of  county 
organizations  that  are  doing  critical  and  con- 
structive work  could  be  numbered  on  the  ten 
fingers,  or  less.  Many  of  the  colleges  offer  courses 
specifically  on  municipal  government,  but  the 
*'one  pervasive  unit  of  local  government  through- 
out the  United  States"  is  disposed  of  with  a  brief 
mention.  No  political  scientist  has  ever  had  the 
ambition  to  plow  into  the  soil,  so  that  while  there 
is  now  available  a  five-hundred-page  bibliography 
of  city  government,  there  has  never  been  written 
a  single  volume'  devoted  exclusively  to  counties. 
Journalists  for  the  most  part  have  left  the  subject 
severely  alone. 

And  yet  in  those  few  instances  where  the  county 
has  been  put  under  the  microscope  or  has  been 
given  more  than  a  passing  thought,  the  reward 
of  the  investigators'  labors  have  always  been  so 

^Annals  of  the  American  Academy  of  Political  and  Social 
Science,  May,  1913,  contains  a  number  of  important  monographs 
on  the  subject. 


¥ 


A  POLITICAL  BY-WAY  7 

certain  and  rich  as  to  excite  wonder  as  to  how 
much  further  the  shortcomings  of  the  county- 
extend.  In  Hudson  County,  N.  J.,  a  few  years 
ago,  the  cost  of  the  court  house  which  had  been 
fixed  at  nine  hundred  thousand  dollars,  threat- 
ened to  run  up  to  seven  million  dollars.  Impressed 
by  this  striking  circumstance,  a  body  of  citizens 
formed  themselves  into  a  permanent  Federation 
to  look  deeper  and  longer  into  this  back  alley  of 
their  civic  life.  They  found  that  the  court  house 
incident  was  but  the  most  dramatic  of  a  hundred 
falls  from  grace.  The  Public  Efficiency  Society 
of  Cook  County,  111.,  the  Westchester  Coimty 
Research  Bureau,  the  Taxpayers*  Association  of 
Suffolk  County,  the  Nassau  County  Associa- 
tion in  New  York  and  the  Tax  Association  of 
Alameda  County  in  California]  have  all  been 
richly  repaid  for  their  investments  in  county 
government  research.  Sporadic  cases ?  Possibly. 
And  then  again  perhaps  there  is  something  basi- 
cally defective  in  the  system. 

But  is  it  all  a  matter  of  importance? 

If  universality  and  magnitude  of  cost  count  for 
anything,  yes.  Nearly  all  the  inhabitants  of  the 
United  States  live  in  a  county  and  nearly  every 
voter  takes  part  in  the  affairs  of  one.  There  are 
over  three  thousand  such  units.  In  their  cor- 
porate capacity  they  had  in  19 13  a  net  indebted- 
ness of  $371,528,268  (per  capita,  $4.33),  which 
was  a  growth  from  $196,564,619  in  1902  (per 
capita  $2.80).     In  that  year  they  spent  for  general 


8  THE    COUNTY 

government,  $385,181,760,  which  is  something  like 
one  third  the  cost  of  the  federal  government  for 
the  same  period.  Of  this  amount,  $102,334,964 
was  for  general  management.  Through  these 
county  governments  the  American  people  spent 
for  highway  purposes,  $55,514,891 ;  for  the  protec- 
tion of  life  and  property,  $15,213,229;  for  the  con- 
servation of  health,  $2,815,466;  for  education, 
$57,682,193;  for  libraries,  $364,712;  for  recreation, 
$419,556  (mostly  in  the  single  state  of  New  Jersey) ; 
for  public  service  enterprises,  $189,122;  for  inter- 
est charges,  $17,417,593;  upon  structures  of  a 
more  or  less  permanent  nature,  $89,839,726. 

The  figures,  though  of  course  not  to  be  taken 
too  seriously,  are  in  some  cases  as  impressive  for 
their  paucity  as  in  others  for  their  magnitude, 
for  throughout  a  large  part  of  the  United  States 
the  county  is  the  sole  agency  of  local  government. 

Counties  pretty  much  throughout  the  nation 
are  the  comer-stone  of  the  system  of  partisan 
government  and  organization. 

Counties,  for  this  variety  of  reasons,  therefore, 
would  seem  to  be  a  fit  subject  for  scrutiny  as  to 
their  relation  to  some  of  the  vital  issues  of 
American  life. 


CHAPTER  II 

JUST  WHAT  IS  A  COUNTY? 

Before  our  forefathers  had  ''brought  forth 
upon  this  continent  a  new  nation,"  there  was  no 
universal  standard  relationship  in  the  colonies 
between  the  local  and  the  general  colonial  or  state 
governments.  In  Massachusetts,  Rhode  Island 
and  Connecticut,  the  towns  had  begun  as  separate 
units ;  then  they  federated  and  gradually  developed 
an  organic  unity;  that  is,  the  localities  produced 
the  general  government.  In  the  South,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  local  governments  had  more  the 
semblance  of  creatures  of  the  general  government 
designed  to  meet  the  expansion  of  the  earliest 
settlements  into  wide  and  therefore  less  wieldy 
units  for  administration. 

By  the  time  of  the  constitution  of  1789,  it  be- 
came possible  to  standardize  the  division  of  labor 
of  governing  the  continent.  In  the  center  of  the 
scheme  were  placed  the  states,  which  reserved  to 
themselves  all  the  governmental  power  there  was, 
except  what  the  constitution  specifically  con- 
ferred upon  the  federal  government.  Henceforth, 
whatever  may  have  been  its  historical  origin  or 

9 


lo  THE    COUNTY 

its  ancient  traditions,  every  local  division  of 
government  was  to  content  itself  with  such  func- 
tions as  were  to  be  portioned  out  to  it  by  superior 
I  state  authority.  It  was  to  have  no  ** inherent" 
"^i—  powers.  It  was  to  act  simply  as  an  agency  of  the 
state,  which  had  power  at  will  to  enlarge  or  di- 
minish the  local  sphere  of  activity  or  wipe  it  off 
the  map  entirely. 

Now  the  duties  which  state  governments  as- 
sumed in  the  early  years  of  the  republic  were  as 
simple  as  necessity  would  allow.  This  was  pre- 
eminently the  day  of  ''as  little  government  as 
possible."  The  people  of  the  states  covenanted 
with  themselves,  as  it  were,  to  stand  guard  over 
life,  Hberty  and  property.  It  was  a  broad  enough 
program,  but  it  was  the  custom  in  those  days 
to  interpret  it  narrowly — no  humanitarian  activi- 
ties beyond  the  crude  attempts  to  deal  with  the 
more  obvious  phases  of  poverty;  no  measure  of 
correction  in  the  modem  sense ;  no  "public  works.*' 
As  an  incident  in  meeting  these  obligations,  the 
constitutional  convention  and  the  state  legislatures 
met  and  laid  down  statutes  or  codes  of  conduct 
affecting  these  elementary  needs  of  a  civilized 
people.  They  defined  the  various  crimes  (or 
adopted  the  definitions  of  the  English  common 
law);  they  legalized  a  civil  procedure.  It  was 
definitely  settled  that  the  voice  of  the  whole 
people  should  control  in  determining  what  the 
state  should  do  for  its  citizens. 

Then  came  the  question  of  getting  the  means 


JUST  WHAT  IS  A  COUNTY?  ii 

for  applying  these  abstract  principles  to  daily  life, 
of  bringing  to  every  man's  own  door  the  means 
for  enforcing  his  rights.  Had  the  American 
people  proceeded  from  this  p6int  along  logical  lines 
they  would  have  cut  the  administrative  machinery 
to  fit  their  state-wide  policies.  But  it  was  not  so 
ordered.  The  officers  of  the  state  had  determined 
upon  the  policies;  the  officers  of  the  localities  j 
were  to  execute  the  policies.  The  period  of  the 
American  Revolution,  with  its  deep-seated  distrust 
of  kingly  power,  was  the  beginning  of  an  era  of 
decentralized  administration  which  gained  rather 
than  diminished  in  force  for  as  much  as  two  genera- 
tions. For  the  purpose,  the  existing  counties 
served  as  instruments  ready  to  hand  and  their 
status  now  became  fixed  as  the  local  agencies  of 
the  state  government.  New  counties  were  formed 
from  time  to  time  as  needs  arose.  In  each  of 
these  counties  was  a  loose,  but  more  or  less  com- 
plete organization,  which  it  will  now  be  fitting 
to  describe. 

More  important  perhaps  than  any  other  en- 
forcing agent  of  the  county,  in  these  still  primitive 
days,  was  the  shmff,  who  sooner  or  later  became 
a  fixture  in  every  American  colony.  This  most 
ancient  officer  of  the  county  had  been  perpetuated 
through  the  centuries  from  Saxon  and  Norman 
times.  He  had  inherited  nearly  all  of  the  powers  and 
prerogatives  of  his  historical  prototype  as  they  ob- 
tained in  England  during  the  seventeenth  century. 
He  did  not  preside  over  a  court  in  the  county, 


12  THE    COUNTY 

but  he  could  make  arrests  for  violation  of  the  law, 
with  or  without  a  warrant.  If  his  task  was  too 
much  for  one  man,  he  could  summon  to  his  aid 
a  posse  comitatus  of  private  citizens.  And  inas- 
much as  he  was  obliged  not  only  to  apprehend, 
but  to  hold  his  prisoner  for  trial,  it  very  natur- 
ally fell  to  him  to  take  care  of  the  lock-up  or 
jail. 

There  had  been  established,  beginning  with 
Connecticut,  in  1666,  a  system  of  local  courts, 
whose  jurisdiction  in  most  states  came  to  be  co- 
extensive v/ith  the  county.  Around  this  institu- 
tion centered  the  official  life  of  the  county,  so 
much  so  that  the  county  capitol  is  universally 
known  as  the  "court  house."  The  sheriff  from 
its  beginnings  acted  as  the  high  servant  of  this 
court,  in  the  disposition  of  prisoners,  the  execution 
of  judgments,  the  service  of  warrants  of  arrest  and 
in  similar  duties. 

To  the  account  of  Connecticut  is  also  to  be 
credited  the  most  unique,  and  in  many  ways  most 
important  county  officer  of  modem  times.  In 
the  development  of  its  criminal  law,  England  had 
never  worked  out  a  system  of  local  prosecuting 
officers.  The  colonies  in  the  early  days  had  as- 
signed the  duty  of  representing  the  state's  interest 
to  the  magistrates.  But  in  1704  there  was  author- 
ized for  each  county  in  Connecticut  an  attorney  y 
•'to  prosecute  all  criminal  offenders  .  .  .  and 
suppress  vice  and  immorality."  From  this  begin- 
ning came  the  distinctively  American  officer  who 


JUST  WHAT  IS  A  COUNTY?  13 

is  variously  known  as  district  attorney,  prosecutor 
of  the  pleas,  solicitor,  or  state's  attorney. 

Since  the  business  of  the  county  court  (which 
formerly  included  administrative  as  well  as  judi- 
cial matters)  was  too  important  not  to  be  recorded, 
there  was  established  a  clerk  of  court  whose  duties 
are  summarized  in  his  title.  In  more  recent  times, 
however,  the  functions  of  this  officer  have  been 
both  expanded  and  limited,  according  to  the 
amount  of  the  transactions  in  the  county.  So 
that,  in  the  larger  counties  each  court,  or  some- 
times a  group  of  courts,  ha^e  a  clerk  whose  duties 
are  solely  concerned  with  judicial  matters,  while  in 
less  important  counties  the  "county  clerk"  finds 
it  easily  possible  to  serve  in  no  less  than  a  dozen 
different  capacities.  It  is  the  county  clerk  who 
ordinarily  issues  marriage  licenses  and  receives 
for  filing,  real  estate  deeds,  mortgages  and  a 
variety  of  other  papers. 

And  then,  without  apparent  good  reason,  the 
colonists   had    brought    over   from    England    the 
coroner.     In  the  days  of  Alfred  the  _^Great  this 
officer  had  had  an  honorable  and  useful  place  in 
the  realm.     As  a  sort  of  understudy  of  the  sheriff, 
he  took  the  latter's  place  when  he  was  disabled. 
Meanwhile  he  was  the  King's  local  representative, 
charged  with  the  duty  of  laying  hands  on  every- j 
thing  that  seemed  to  be  without  an  owner  and) 
taking  possession  of  it  in  the  name  of  the  King,  j 
But  through  the  lapse  of  time,  the  ''Crowner" 
had  lost  both  dignity  and  duties  until  there  was 


14  THE    COUNTY 

little  left  except  for  him  to  take  charge  of  the 
bodies  of  those  who  had  died  by  violence  or  in  a 
suspicious  manner,  seek  the  cause  of  death  and 
locate,  if  possible,  the  person  responsible  for  the 
circumstance. 

So  much  for  the  organization  to  administer 
local  justice,  which  is  the  irreducible  minimum 
of  county  government.  In  early  colonial  times 
(and  even  yet  in  certain  states),  the  judges  and 
other  judicial  officers  had  performed  important 
duties  outside  this  limited  field  of  administering 
justice.  But  in  time  the  processes  involved  in  the 
payment  of  salaries  and  the  up-keep  of  a  county 
building,  created  in  sizable  counties  a  "business 
problem  of  no  mean  proportions.  Since  in  most 
states  these  costs  have  been  charged  against  the 
county,  it  has  been  necessary  to  install  appropriate 
machinery  of  fiscal  administration.  In  every 
county  a  board  of  directors,  variously  selected  and 
denominated,  has  taken  over  the  management  of 
material  things.  With  the  help  of  a  variety  of 
minor  administrative  officers  like  the  assessors, 
the  treasurer  and  other  fiscal  officers,  it  raises  and 
appropriates  money;  it  audits  claims  against  the 
county ;  it  borrows  money. 

Around  this  judicial  and  administrative  nucleus 
y  was  built  the  tmiversal  American  county.  In 
the  rural  sections  it  expanded  to  meet  the  lack 
of  any  other  local  government.  As  an  incident 
to  the  theory  that  the  state  is  responsible  for  at 
least  a  minimum  of  protection  of  human  life,  the 


JUST  WHAT  IS  A  COUNTY?  15 

state  government  had  taken  upon  itself  the  care 
of  indigents.  This  duty  it  usually  turned  over 
directly  to  the  county.  The  county  authorities 
have  also  had  control  (often  exclusively  so)  of 
rural  roads  and  bridges. 

In  the  performance  of  these  various  functions 
the  American  people  seem  to  have  thought  it 
quite  unnecessary  for  the  county  to  be  supplied 
with  the  proper  apparatus  for  doing  its  own  policy 
making.  Or,  to  look  at  the  matter  from  the  other 
side,  they  deemed  it  quite  appropriate  that  the 
policy-making  part  of  the  state  government,  which 
is  the  legislature,  should  not  control  the  hands  and 
feet,  which  in  matters  of  local  concern  consist  of  the 
county  officials.  Elaborate  general  laws  were  en- 
acted to  prescribe  in  minute  detail  the  daily  round 
of  routine  of  each  officer.  Why  should  he  or  why 
should  the  people  think?  It  was  not  the  purpose 
of  the  state  that  they  should.  And  without  think- 
ing, there  could  be  no  differences  of  opinion; 
without  differences  of  opinion,  no  ''issues";  with- 
out issues,  no  real  politics. 


/ 


CHAPTER  III 

A   CREATURE  OF  TRADITION 

It  all  came  about  in  this  way : 

The  first  settlers  in  the  permanent  Virginia 
colony  found  a  climate  that  was  mild  and  a  soil 
that  was  fertile.  Numerous  rivers  radiating 
through  the  country  furnished  a  natural  means 
for  transportation.  Indians  were  not  a  serious 
menace.  The  settlers  themselves  were  of  the 
landed  gentry,  closely  identified  with  the  estab- 
lished English  Church. 

Out  of  such  a  combination  a  very  definite  polity 
inevitably  grew.  The  people  were  destined  to 
spread  themselves  far  and  wide;  agriculture  was 
to  be  their  chief  pursuit;  little  government  would 
be  needed  and  the  forms  and  substance  of  demo- 
cracy would  have  at  best  a  slow  growth. 

For  many  years  the  local  government  consisted 

primarily  of  small  groups  of  settlements  which 

were  called  hundreds  or  parishes  and  were  presided 

over  by  a  vestry  of  "selected  men."      When  the 

plantations  were  large  and  scattered,  government 

was  sometimes  supplied  by  the  owners  themselves. 

But  in  1634  i^  Virginia,  the  example  of  English 

16 


A  CREATURE  OF  TRADITION  17 

institutions  took  firmer  root  and  eight  shires  or 
counties  were  formed  and  made  the  unit  of  repre- 
sentation in  the  colonial  assembly  and  for  pur- 
poses of  military,  judicial,  highway  and  fiscal 
administration.  The  officers  were  the  county 
lieutenant  (the  militia  officer),  the  sheriff  (who 
acted  as  collector  and  treasurer),  justices  of  the 
peace  and  coroners.  All  were  appointed  by  the 
governor  of  the  colony  on  the  recommendation 
of  the  justices,  and  the  latter  thus  became  a  self- 
perpetuating  body  of  aristocratic  planters  con- 
trolling the  county  administration.  This  body 
of  appointed  justices  constituted  the  county  court, 
which  to  this  day  in  some  of  the  southern  states 
is  not  only  a  judicial  body,  but  also  corresponds 
to  the  board  of  supervisors  or  the  county  commis- 
sioners in  other  localities. 

Such  was  one  line  of  descent.  The  Virginians, 
like  most  of  their  contemporaries,  knew  little  and 
cared  less  for  political  science.  They  simply  turned 
to  their  English  experience,  pieced  together  some 
old-country  institutions  and  adapted  them  to  the 
new  world.  Their  experiment  succeeded  for  the 
time  being  at  least.  It  could  scarcely  have  failed 
under  such  simple  conditions. 

Of  quite  a  different  sort  were  the  influences  at 
work  in  New  England.  A  severe  climate,  a  rocky 
soil  and  menacing  Indians  drove  the  colonists 
into  compact  communities,  where  they  could 
live  by  shipping  and  fishing.  They  too  were  for- 
tunate  in   striking   an   environment   that   rather 


4 


I 8  THE    COUNTY 

exactly  fitted  their  old-country  experience.  For 
they  were  a  homogeneous,  single-minded  body  of 
people  with  firm  traditions  of  democracy  and  a 
common  religious  faith.  From  the  congregational 
form  of  organization  that  was  characteristic  of 
the  Puritan  movement  to  the  town  meeting  for 
purposes  of  civil  government,  was  a  single  easy 
step.  Thus  the  ''town"  idea  came  to  hold  the 
center  of  the  stage  in  New  England  local  affairs. 
But  it  never  had  the  all-sufficiency  in  its  sphere 
which  the  county  ha,d  in  the  South,  and  even  New 
England  had  to  recognize  a  need  for  more  compre- 
hensive subdivisions.  And  so,  in  1636,  Massa- 
chusetts was  divided  into  four  judicial  districts  in 
each  of  which  a  quarterly  court  was  held.  In 
1643  four  counties  were  definitely  organized, 
both  as  judicial  and  militia  districts,  and  before 
the  middle  of  the  century  there  was  established 
a  system  of  representative  commissioners-  from 
each  town,  who  met  at  the  shire  town  to  equalize 
assessments.  The  office  of  county  treasurer  was 
created  in  1654.  Later  a  mHitia  officer  was  ap- 
pointed, and  within  a  few  years  county  officers 
were  entrusted  with  the  duty  of  registering  land 
titles,  recording  deeds  and  probating  wills — 
functions  transferred  in  part  from  town  officers 
and  in  part  from  the  governor  and  council. 

So  from  Virginia  and  Massachusetts  flowed  the 
two  streams  of  institutional  influence,  the  former 
tending  to  make  the  county  the  exclusive  organ 
of  local  government,  and  the  other  emphasizing 


A  CREATURE  OF  TRADITION  19 

the  town.  Maryland,  though  it  had  started  out 
with  a  somewhat  special  type  of  organization  bor- 
rowed from  the  County  Palatine  of  Durham,  with 
its  manors  and  hundreds,  later  came  under  the 
sway  of  Virginian  precedents  and  three  counties 
were  established  there  in  1650.  The  Carolinas, 
which  were  not  thoroughly  organized  until  the 
eighteenth  century,  followed  the  Virginia  plan 
in  its  main  outlines.  Georgia's  development  was 
not  well  begun  until  after  the  Revolution.  Con- 
necticut, Rhode  Island,  New  Hampshire  and  Maine 
all  followed  the  lead  of  Massachusetts,  though  the 
first  two  of  these  states  minimized  the  importance 
of  the  county  to  an  even  greater  extent. 

To  these  two  lines  of  influence  the  central  states 
added  the  idea  of  a  distinct  administrative  author- 
ity, which  was  composed  in  New  York  of  a  new 
body  made  up  of  the  supervisors  of  the  towns,  in 
New  Jersey  of  the  local  assessors  and  in  Penn- 
sylvania of  special  commissioners.  These  new 
departures  were  established  in  the  latter  part  of 
the  seventeenth  century.  In  all  of  these  states,  it 
should  be  noted,  the  township  also  existed  for  a 
limited  number  of  purposes,  such  as  the  care  of  the 
poor,  for  election,  administration  and  for  purposes 
of  taxation. 

The  westward  movement  of  population  had 
begun  before  the  Revolution.  Following  in  general 
the  parallels  of  latitude  of  their  native  soil,  the 
pioneers  carried  their  local  institutions  with  them 
for  transplantation,  regardless  of  the  wholly  differ- 


20  THE    COUNTY 

ent  underlying  conditions  that  now  confronted 
them.  In  their  closely  populated,  homogeneous 
settlements  the  New  England  pioneers  that  crossed 
over  into  the  Western  Reserve  had  been  accus- 
tomed to  act  through  town  meetings.  Nothing 
would  do  now  but  a  reincarnation  of  the  old  insti- 
tutions. The  six-mile  rectangles  into  which  the 
surveyors  had  divided  the  western  territory  gave 
them  their  opening.  There  was  accordingly  de- 
veloped in  the  open  prairie  among  the  isolated 
homesteads  a  unit  of  government  that  at  least 
superficially  resembled  the  old  New  England  town. 
It  was  but  a  geometrical  expression,  to  be  sure, 
but  the  mere  shadow  of  it  seems  to  have  given 
satisfaction.  But  in  1802,  when  the  state  of  Ohio 
was  carved  out  of  this  territory,  this  exotic  growth 
was  cut  short  and  the  "county-township"  system 
of  Pennsylvania  was  adopted.  Indiana  followed 
Ohio  in  this  step  and  the  system  came  to  predomi- 
nate in  the  Middle  West,  as  for  example,  in  Iowa, 
Kansas  and  Missouri. 

The  instinct  for  harking  back  to  precedents 
appeared  also  in  the  early  history  of  Michigan. 
When  it  .was  organized  as  a  territory  it  was  divided 
up  into  counties.  But  in  1825,  under  the  stimulus 
of  immigration  from  New  York  where  the  town- 
ship-supervisor plan  was  in  vogue,  townships 
had  to  be  established  for  particular  purposes  to 
meet  the  prevailing  demand  for  this  type  of  self- 
government. 

In  the  South,  Kentucky  and  Tennessee  took 


A  CREATURE  OF  TRADITION  21 

their  cues  from  Virginia  and  established  the 
justices  in  control  of  the  county  administrative 
affairs.  Mississippi  and  Alabama  took  Georgia 
for  their  model. 

In  Louisiana,  the  parish  authority  corresponding 
to  the  board  of  supervisors  or  commissioners  is 
the  police  jury,  which  is  elected  by  wards  very 
much  on  the  principle  of  the  New  England  town. 

In  the  country  beyond  the  Northwest  Territory, 
the  clash  of  New  England  and  southern  influences 
was  met  by  an  interesting  compromise.  In  Illi- 
nois, for  instance,  the  earliest  settlement  had  been 
made  under  southern  auspices.  The  county  type 
of  local  government  was  therefore  established, 
but  of  the  style  employed  in  Ohio  and  Indiana 
rather  than  in  Kentucky.  In  1826,  however,  the 
justices  were  made  elective  by  precincts  and 
later  the  township  was  made  a  corporation  for 
the  purposes  of  school,  road,  justice  and  poor 
relief  administration.  By  1848  the  "town  idea" 
had  grown  strong  enough  to  force  the  adop- 
tion of  a  provision  in  the  new  constitution  for  a 
plan  to  afford  each  county  an  option  between  the 
two  systems.  The  northern  counties  quickly 
adopted  the  township  plan,  while  the  southern  ones 
clung  to  the  original  forms.  Wisconsin  at  an 
even  earlier  date  (1841)  had  effected  a  similar 
compromise  which,  however,  was  swept  away 
seven  years  later  when  the  township  system  was 
made  mandatory  by  the  constitution.  At  a 
later  period   Missouri   (1879),    Nebraska   (1883), 


22  THE    COUNTY 

Minnesota  (1878)  and  Dakota  (1883)  permitted 
the  adoption  of  similar  optional  laws. 

In  the  new  Southwest,  the  Northwest,  the  Rocky 
Mountain  region  and  the  far  West,  owing  in 
part  to  the  comparative  sparsity  of  settlement 
and  in  part  to  the  thinning  out  of  the  definite 
historical  influences,  the  county  has  acquired  a 
greater  importance  than  anywhere  in  the  country 
and  the  towns  or  townships,  while  they  have  been 
erected  in  a  number  of  the  states,  play  but  an 
insignificant  part  in  local  government.  When 
Texas  became  an  independent  republic,  the  Ameri- 
can county  system  was  substituted  for  the  earlier 
Mexican  local  government.  Before  the  middle  of 
the  nineteenth  century  counties  had  been  estab- 
lished in  New  Mexico,  Utah  and  Oregon;  ten 
years  later  in  Nebraska  and  Washington;  by 
1870  in  Colorado,  Dakota,  Montana,  Idaho, 
Wyoming,  Nevada  and  Arizona. 

And  so,  the  institution  of  the  county  has  been 
driven  westward  in  obedience  to  precedent  and 
^  through  the  instinct  for  imitation.  Of  thought- 
ful foresight,  of  definite  planning  for  a  serviceable 
career,  about  the  same  measure  was  applied  as  in 
the  case  of  Topsy,  who  "jest  growed."  It  could 
not  be  otherwise.  Local  government  in  pioneer 
days  had  to  be  thrown  together  more  or  less  on 
the  "hurry-up"  plan.  On  the  western  prairies 
as  in  colonial  Virginia,  public  needs  were  so  limited 
that  it  really  mattered  comparatively  little  what 
agencies  were  employed. 


A  CREATURE  OF  TRADITION  23 

Counties  once  established  acquired  a  tendency 
to  "stick"  tenaciously  to  nearly  their  original 
form.  Even  in  the  seventeenth  century  the 
county  in  England  was  well  into  a  decline.  Its 
disintegration  had  begun  with  the  growth  of 
populous  centers,  that  demanded  more  govern- 
ment, both  in  quantity  and  in  variety.  The 
seven  Saxon  kingdoms  whence  counties  grew, 
had  ceased  to  be  either  natural  or  convenient  self- 
governing  units.  In  a  later  period  they  have 
ceased  to  be  even  important  subdivisions  for  the 
central  administrative  departments,  and  they 
have  been  crossed  and  recrossed  by  the  lines  of 
sanitary  and  other  districts  until  the  original 
county  may  be  said  to  be  scarcely  distinguishable. 

In  America  even  sharper  and  more  pervasive 
social  forces  have  been  assaulting  this  ancient 
institution.  In  our  thinking  of  the  Industrial 
Revolution  it  has  been  customary  to  dwell  upon 
its  effects  in  urban  districts.  This  movement 
made  the  modem  city.  But  its  effect  did  not  stop 
there.  Modem  mechanical  devices  have  also  ^ 
made  the  original  county  boundary  lines  obsolete. 
Steam  railway  lines  have  brought  into  close  com- 
munication points  which  were  once  too  distant 
to  be  traversed  easily  and  often,  under  all  sorts 
of  conditions.  Electric  railways,  in  many  in- 
stances have  supplemented  the  process.  The 
automobile,  particularly  of  the  cheapest  type,  has 
brought  within  easy  reach  of  the  court  house 
points  which  a  hundred  years  ago,  when  the  stage- 


/ 


24  THE    COUNTY 

coach  was  the  standard  of  locomotion,  were  too 
remote  for  frequent  communication.  And,  finally, 
the  extension  of  mail  facilities  and  the  telephone 
have  minimized  the  importance  of  face-to-face 
business  intercourse  beyond  anything  ever  dreamed 
of  when  counties  were  first  made. 

Counties  as  we  see  them  on  the  map  often  fail 
to  take  account  of  the  sweepinp'  changes  in  the 
character  of  populations.  On  the  western  prairies 
they  were  formed  for  a  sparsely  distributed  peo- 
ple following  chiefly  agriculture.  In  the  midst 
of  these  regions  at  numerous  points  have  sprung 
up  great  centers  of  manufacture  and  commerce 
like  Chicago,  Kansas  City,  St.  Paul,  and  Omaha. 
In  their  train  have  followed  the  multifarious  prob- 
lems of  the  modern  city,  which  require  a  very 
particular  sort  of  governmental  treatment. 

To  these  conditions  the  county  as  an  institu- 
tion has  consistently  maintained  an  attitude  of 
stolid  indifference.  Division  of  old  counties  goes 
on  from  year  to  year.  (Bronx  county  separated 
from  New  York  in  1914,  to  the  accompaniment 
of  a  costly  new  court  house  and  several  hundred 
new  jobs  and  no  benefit  to  the  taxpayers  and 
citizens  except  a  heavy  increase  in  taxation.) 
But  who  can  recall  two  counties  that  have  con- 
solidated? Such  an  exhibition  of  modernity  and 
of  the  spirit  of  progressivism  it  is  apparently  not 
in  the  nature  of  the  county  to  afford. 


CHAPTER  IV 


FALLING  AFOUL  OF   "DEMOCRACY" 


And  yet  we  should  do  the  subject  less  than 
justice  were  we  not  to  recall  an  historical  adventure 
that  befell  the  county  in  the  period  of  its  coming 
of  age,  when  it  was  assuming  something  like  its 
typical  American  form. 

It  was  about  the  time  of  the  Revolution  when 
the  atmosphere  was  particularly  uncomfortable 
for  "tyrants"  and  for  every  created  thing  that 
could  be  given  the  semblance  of  "tyranny." 

"The  history  of  the  present  King  of  Great 
Britain  is  a  history  of  repeated  injuries  and  usur- 
pations, all  having  in  direct  object  the  establish- 
ment of  an  absolute  tyranny  over  those  States." 
So  ran  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  and  if 
it  was  not  a  precise  statement  of  fact,  it  was  at 
least  an  accurate  gauge  of  the  fighting  public 
opinion  that  was  making  political  institutions. 
King  George's  "f rightfulness"  seems  to  have  been 
chiefly  and  most  concretely  brought  into  the  pub- 
lic eye  in  the  colonies  by  the  acts  of  "swarms  of 
officers"  that  had  been  sent  over  "to  harass  our 

people  and  eat  out  their  substance." 

25 


26  THE    COUNTY 

From  the  point  of  view  of  the  British  Empire, 
it  was  a  stiffening  up  of  the  colonial  administra- 
tion to  make  effective  the  Navigation  Acts,  the 
Stamp  Acts,  and  similar  measures.  But  it  had 
come  too  late.  Through  a  century  and  a  half 
the  spirit  of  independence  had  grown  firmer  and 
firmer  and  the  colonists'  sense  of  identity  with 
the  British  Empire  had  sensibly  diminished.  So 
that  when  the  imperial  revenue  collectors  began 
to  "swarm"  on  their  shores,  the  colonists  were 
goaded  into  a  smashing  antimonarchical  mood. 
It  was  no  mere  temporary  fit  of  rage,  and  when 
physical  violence  of  the  Revolution  was  over, 
the  intellectual  upheaval  steadily  gathered  new 
force  through  the  influence  of  men  of  the  Jefferson 
school.  One  of  the  feats  to  which  the  statesmen 
of  the  Revolution  devoted  themselves  was  devis- 
ing means  for  preventing  future  "swarms"  and 
the  "tyranny"  they  brought  with  them. 

What  irritated  them  more  than  all  else  was 
the  fact  that  these  imperial  agents  were  not  colo- 
nially  selected  and  controlled.  But  now  the 
people  had  replaced  the  king.  They  would  now 
select  the  officers.  A  happy  thought!  But  how 
to  work  it  out;  that  was  the  question. 

It  is  easy  enough  to  pick  flaws  in  their  handicraft, 
but  it  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  architects 
of  the  nineteenth  century  American  democracy 
were  working  in  the  dark  without  models  or  pre- 
cedents and  without  established  principles  of 
organization.     It  is  easy  now  to  look  back  and 


FALLING  AFOUL  OF  "DEMOCRACY"     27 

say:  "You  carried  your  'democracy'  too  far.  It 
would  have  been  not  only  enough,  but  infinitely 
more  effective  to  have  let  the  people  select  simply 
the  legislative  or  'policy-determining'  officers 
and  subordinated  the  administration  to  them. 
The  thing  to  do  was  to  control  the  source  of  power. 
If  you  had  been  careful  to  separate  'politics' 
from  'administration'  you  would  have  saved  our 
generation  a  whole  world  of  political  woe." 

But  the  fact  is  that  the  then  existing  institu- 
tions had  come  into  being  as  a  patchwork  devel- 
opment to  meet  successive  new  needs.  As  for 
local  government,  there  was  so  little  of  it  and  it 
ministered  to  such  elementary  wants  that  very 
few  serious  questions  of  policy  ever  rose  within 
its  jurisdiction.  Moreover,  the  officers  who  came 
in  time  to  have  regulative  or  semi-legislative 
functions,  seem  to  have  been  from  the  beginning, 
concerned  with  the  details  rather  than  the  policies 
of  government.  This  was  true  of  the  justices  of 
the  peace  in  Virginia,  the  selectmen  in  the  New 
England  town,  the  supervisors  in  New  York,  and 
the  assessors  in  New  Jersey.  There  was  no  choice 
except  between  selecting  and  controlling  (or 
tr3ang  to  control)  administrative  officers  and 
foregoing  any  part  whatever  in  local  affairs. 

It  is  of  course  not  to  be  understood  that  no 
local  officers  were  elected  before  the  Revolution. 
Massachussetts  had  always  had  its  town  "select- 
men" and  even  as  early  as  1854  each  county 
elected  its  treasurer  and,  beginning  at  a  somewhat 


I 


■^4t2 


28  THE   COUNTY 

later  date,  the  county  lieutenants.  Supervisors 
were  created  as  elective  officers  in  New  York  in 
1 69 1,  but  they  were  executive  and  representative 
officers  from  the  very  start.  And  the  same  may 
be  said  of  the  town  assessors  in  New  Jersey  (1693) 
and  the  county  assessors  in  Pennsylvania.  But 
the  real  precedent  for  "electing  everybody"  was 
set  in  Pennsylvania  in  1703  when  the  sheriffs 
were  first  chosen  by  the  people — a  step  which 
was  followed  in  1726  by  the  establishment  of 
elective  county  commissioners. 
/  But  immediately  after  the  Revolution  the  new 
notions  of  democracy  began  to  work  more  ag- 
gressively. Virginia  now  organized  counties  and 
its  constitution  stipulated  that  officers  not  other- 
wise provided  for  should  be  elected  by  the  people. 
Sheriffs  and  coroners  were  made  elective  under 
the  New  Jersey  constitution  and  New  York  took 
away  the  governor's  power  of  appointment  and 
vested  it  in  a  council  of  appointment,  which  was 
composed  of  the'govemor  and  four  senators  chosen 
by  the  legislature. 

There  were  cross-currents  in  this  movement, 
however,  and  both  in  the  Northwest  (under  the 
ordinance  of  1787)  and  in  Kentucky  and  Tennessee, 
county  officers  established  in  the  closing  years  of 
the  eighteenth  century  were  made  appointive, 
in  the  one  case  by  the  governor  and  in  the  other 
by  the  county  judges.  But  in  the  new  constitu- 
tions of  Ohio  (1802),  Indiana  (18 16),  and  Illinois 
(181 8),  the  elective  principle  worked  without  a 


FALLING  AFOUL  OF  "DEMOCRACY"     29 

hitch.  Mississippi,  Alabama,  and  Missouri  fol- 
lowed. By  1 82 1  the  passion  had  seized  New  York 
State,  and  sheriffs  and  county  clerks  were  there- 
after elected  by  the  voters  of  the  counties. 

In  Virginia  at  the  constitutional  convention 
in  1829-30,  local  government  was  the  subject  of 
an  acrimonious  discussion,  with  the  Jeffersonian 
influences  seeking  to  break  down  the  established 
power  of  the  self -perpetuating  justices,  who  were 
charged  with  inefficiency,  and  establish  in  their 
place  the  New  England  town  system.  But 
Madison  and  Marshall,  who  were  both  members 
of  the  convention,  successfully  upheld  the  existing 
order.  By  the  middle  of  the  century  both  Vir- 
ginia and  Kentucky  succumbed  to  the  democratic 
influence  and  there  was  a  complete  reaction  from 
the  appointive  system.  New  York  extended  the 
elective  idea  to  district  attorneys  and  county 
judges,  and  Massachusetts  and  New  Hampshire 
in  due  time  made  similar  alterations. 

In  the  states  west  of  the  Mississippi  the  ten- 
dency to  put  all  the  county  officers  in  the  elective 
class  was  assumed  from  the  start  to  be  the  only 
method  of  insuring  popular  control. 

"The  rule  of  the  people"  at  last  captured  the 
whole  country,  except  Rhode  Island,  where  even 
the  sheriff  is  still  appointive.^  The  movement 
was  at  its  height  during  the  long  period  of  demo- 
cratic control  from  Jackson  to  Buchanan,  and  it 
had  behind  it  the  powerfully  stimulating  spirit  of 

'  By  the  legislature. 


30  THE    COUNTY 

the  new  West.  It  was  the  conception  of  practical, 
direct,  but  superficial  thinkers  and  politicians. 
To  be  sure,  the  particular  appointive  system  in 
use  in  New  York  and  other  eastern  states  under 
the  earlier  constitutions'  had  behaved  badly. 
<  The  Jacksonians  leaped  headlong  at  the  conclu- 
I  sion  that  the  trouble  lay  in  the  idea  of  appoint- 
\  ment  per  se.  Other  alternatives  they  did  not 
for  a  moment  consider,  but  with  an  air  of  supreme 
finality  declared  that  "the  people  must  rule" — by 
electing  as  many  officials  as  could  be  crowded  on 
the  ballot. 
\  The  fact  also  that  the  county  possessed  no 
satisfactory  appointing  power  left  no  other  course 
but  to  let  the  people  undertake  the  intricate  work 
of  an  executive.  So  that  through  the  passing  of 
the  years  that  single  course  has  materially  multi- 
plied the  number  of  elective  officers — the  people 
themselves,  enamored  with  the  dogma  that  ''the 
cure  for  democracy  is  more  democracy"  looked 
on  complacently  while  complication  has  been 
heaped  upon  complication. 

In  the  almost  unique  opportunity  for  a  simpli- 
fied government  which  has  been  presented  to  the 
people  of  any  county,  they  have  strenuously  and 
successfully  resisted  the  change.  Such  an  in- 
stance happened  a  few  years  ago  in  the  county 
of  San  Bernardino,  California.  The  people  had 
already  adopted  a  county  charter  in  which  the 
powers  of  the  county  were  vested  in  a  single  small 
board  of  elective  officers  somewhat  on  the  com- 


FALLING  AFOUL  OF  "DEMOCRACY"     31 

mission  plan  now  in  use  in  many  American  cities. 
It  was  regarded  by  many  as  the  highest  type  of 
modernized  county  organization   adopted  up  to 
that  time  anywhere  in  the  United  States.     But 
in  the  interval  that  elapsed  between  the  adoption 
of  the  charter  and  its  going  into  effect,  someone 
discovered  (or  thought  they  discovered)  that  the 
people  were  about  to  be  deprived  of  their  ancient 
liberties  and  that  a  local  oligarchy  was  about  to  \ 
be   erected.     Soon   petitions  were   in   circulation 
and  this  perfectly  good  charter,  which  had  been 
adopted   but   never   tried   out   in   practice,    was 
amended  so  as  to  nullify  the  very  principle  of      ^ 
organization  which  pointed  to  greater  simplicity  ^ 
and  a  better  fixing  of  responsibility.  I 

For  nearly  a  century  popular  government  has  , 
been  galloping  down  the  highway  that  leads  to  v 
governmental  confusion.  Nowhere  does  the  re- 
cord state  that  because  the  people  elected  long 
strings  of  officers,  the  people  therefore  controlled 
those  officers.  All  the  while  the  services  which 
government  could  render  have  become  more 
and  more  numerous  and  the  public  needs  of  the 
people  more  pressing.  And  all  the  while  too,  the 
filling  and  holding  of  office  for  office  sake  has  been 
vested  with  exaggerated  importance,  so  that  the 
county  more  perhaps  than  any  other  civil  division 
has  been  the  home  of  fictitious  political  ''issues."  ^ 
At  regularly  recurring  intervals  the  nation-wide 
county  system  has  been  shaken  to  its  foundations 
over  the  private  futures  of  their  local  Tom  Joneses 


32  THE   COUNTY 

and  Tom  Smiths.  One  of  these  respective  gentle- 
men must  leave  his  growing  law  practice  and 
sacrifice  his  time  to  his  county  by  serving  ^papers 
for  the  county  judge  or  prosecuting  criminals 
before  the  Grand  Jury.  And  none  but  the  people 
is  competent  to  judge  which  of  the  two  it  shall  be. 
Is  the  district  attorneyship  to  be  filled?  Then, 
properly  speaking,  there  would  seem  to  be  nothing 
to  do  but  to  search  for  the  highest  technical  ability 
in  sight  and  place  it  above  the  influences  of  any 
consideration  but  that  of  preserving  the  civil 
rights  of  the  whole  people.  It  is  a  simple  crite- 
rion, around  which  no  "issue"  could  properly 
J  arise.  But  popular  government  has  regularly  and 
almost  universally  thrown  the  selection  of  the 
public  prosecutor  over  into  the  political  arena, 
where  tests  of  fitness  for  specific  duties    count 

I  not  half  so  much  as  a  good  campaign  speech  or 
/ 1  the  ability  to  swing  a  township  into  the  Republican 

/  or  Democratic  column. 

In  the  same  way  many  sheriffs  might  have  set 
before  them  the  plain  duty  to  obey  the  rigid 
prescriptions  of  the  statutes.  But  American 
democracy  has  all  but  universally  decreed  that 
sheriffs  shall  be  selected  after  the  manner  of  discre- 
tionary, policy-determining  officers.  As  for  the 
coroner,  who  would  suppose  that  his  grim  services 
could  be  made  the  subject  of  interested,  intelligent 
popular  discussion  ?  But  the  coroner,  in  a  majority 
of  states,  is  on  the  "ticket,"  a  subject  ostensibly 
for  the  citizens  to  weigh  in  the  balance  with  a  view 


FALLING  AFOUL  OF  "DEMOCRACY''     33 

to  the  fittest  selection.  And  then  the  ballot 
nearly  always  bears  the  candidates  for  the  office 
of  county  clerk.  He,  like  the  sheriff,  has  his  duties 
minutely  described  in  the  laws,  to  the  dotting  of  an 
*4"  and  the  crossing  of  a  "t. "  But  in  the  estima- 
tion of  many  good  citizens  it  is  of  supreme  impor- 
tance that  a  good  Republican  or  a  deserving 
Democrat  should  be  placed  in  the  office,  in  jorder, 
presumably,  thELthe  oMca  forms  may  be  arranged 
fQ^_ilie_filing  cases  according  to  the  historical 
doctrines  of  one_or^hejDther  of  the  national  parties. 
Never  was  there  a  serious  movement  to  elect 
United  States  marshals  or  district  attorneys. 
Other  and  more  satisfactory  methods  of  selection 
have  been  employed.  But  for  the  analogous^ 
officers  in  the  states,  nothing  but  popular  choice! 
would  satisfy  the  temper  of  the  young  American.' 
republic. 


CHAPTER  V 


THE    ''jungle" 


The  long  *' bed-quilt"  ballot  of  county  officers, 
as  a  Chicago  newspaperman  called  it,  at  first 
innocently,  and  then  maliciously,  deceived,  mis- 
led and  disfranchised  the  "average  citizen."  As 
to  the  manner  in  which  this  result  was  brought 
about,  more  hereafter. 

"^  But  aside  from  all  that,  the  long  ballot  prin- 
ciple turned  out  to  be  the  father  of  irresponsible 
organization.  Each  elective  officer  received  his  i 
commission  straight  from  the  people;  his  account- 
ability was  solely  and  directly  to  them.  No 
officer  was  to  be  entrusted  with  much  power  for 
the  fear  that  he  might  emulate  King  George  and 
enslave  the  county.  Government  generally  was 
regarded  as  a  natural  but  more  or  less  necessary 
V  enemy  of  the  people  to  be  tied  with  a  short  rope 
-    lest  it  break  loose  and  do  incalculable  damage. 

To  the  devotees  of  this  theory,  the  idea  that 
the  county  should  have  a  directing  executive  head, 
if  indeed  it  ever  received  consideration,  was  ap- 
parently too  suggestive  of  Hanoverian  monarchy 
to  be  seriously  entertained.     This  was  to  be  a 

34 


THE  "JUNGLE"  35 

"government  of  laws,  not  of  men'* — the  people  ^ 
would  see  that  all  went  well. 

It  was  such  a  spirit,  no  doubt,  that  guided  the 
development  of  the  county  system  in  an  eastern  X 
state,  which  the  writer  studied  a  few  years  ago. 
In  the  course  of  this  effort  the  interrelations  of 
officers  in  a  typical  unit  were  diagrammed — with 
the  result  shown  in  frontispiece.  It  was  found,  for 
instance,  that  the  county  clerk  who  was  ''directly 
responsible  to  the  people"  was  given  duties  to 
perform  under  some  twenty  different  laws,  the 
enforcement  of  which  under  the  constitution  was 
charged  upon  the  governor  as  the  chief  executive 
of  the  state.  In  fulfillment  of  these  obligations 
he  was  found  to  be  under  the  direction,  among 
others,  of  the  superintendent  of  banking,  the 
superintendent  of  insurance,  the  commissioner 
of  excise  and  the  secretary  of  state.  For  the 
routine  of  his  office  he  was  answerable  to  the  local 
board  of  supervisors.  The  sheriff,  who  "took 
his  orders  from  the  people,"  was  found  to  be  an- 
swerable to  the  supervisors,  the  surrogate  and  the 
county  judge.  The  district  attorney  was  put 
down  as  subject  to  at  least  three  minor  state  officers 
besides  the  governor  and  the  board  of  supervisors. 
The  county  treasurer  looked  up  (or  was  supposed 
to)  to  the  state  commissioner  of  excise,  the  state 
board  of  tax  commissioners,  the  commissioner  of 
education,  the  comptroller  and  the  state  treasurer. 

And  in  all  this  wilderness  of  conflicting  responsi-  ^" 
bility  there  was,  be  it  reiterated,  no  single  officer 


36  THE  COUNTY 

who  could  be  called  the  executive^  The  governor, 
it  is  true,  had  power  to  remove  and  fill  vacancies, 
but  even  this  negative  control  was  conditioned 
by  the  fact  that  there  were  sixty-one  counties  in 
the  state,  that  some  of  them  were  hundreds  of 
miles  from  the  capital  and  that  the  governor  was 
charged  with  a  thousand  other  responsibilities 
besides  looking  after  the  counties.  It  was  true 
that  the  state  comptroller  was  given  power  to 
examine  into  the  fiscal  affairs  of  the  various 
counties,  but  this  safeguard  was  of  limited  value 
in  practice,  owing  to  the  small  number  of  examiners 
which  the  legislature  provides. 

No,  the  ingenious  Anglo-Saxon  mind  had  discov- 
ered a  substitute  for  efficient  personal  supervision ! 
If  a  given  officer  were  to  go  wrong  or  neglect  his 
duties,  then  the  supervisors  were  authorized  to 
go  to  the  district  attorney  and  persuade  him,  if 
possible,  to  take  action  on  the  officer's  bond  or  to 
institute  a  criminal  prosecution.  If  the  district 
\y attorney  was  negligent  in  the  matter,  the  super- 
^/  \^isors  might  go  to  the  governor  with  charges  of 
neglect  of  duty.  But  if  the  original  officer  in 
question  was  just  lazy,  slow  or  inefficient,  then 7 
everybody  simply  could  wait  "till  he  got  round" 
to  doing  his  duty. 

To  this  day  this  circumambulation  in  the  name 
of  democracy  actually  fulfills  the  conception  of 
popular  rule  for  no  inconsiderable  body  of  political 
leaders.     Where   the    system    goes   wrong,    they  J 
inject  a  little  more  confusion,  a  little  more  irre- 


THE  "JUNGLE"  37 

sponsibility  into  the  plan  of  government.  Take, 
for  instance,  the  Indiana  system.  In  1898  the 
county  government  became  the  subject  of  a  state- 
wide scandal  and  was  made  the  political  issue  of 
the  year.  The  governor  in  his  biennial  message 
followed  the  good  old  American  custom:  more 
complications,  more  division  of  responsibility. 
He  recommended  a  system  of  "safeguards"  which 
had  the  effect  of  taking  away  power  (and  responsi- 
biHty)  from  the  county  board  (commissioners) 
and  vesting  it  in  a  brand-new  body  known  as  the 
council,  composed  of  seven  members,  three  elected  y 
from  the  county  at  large,  and  one  from  each  of/ 
the  four  councilmanic  districts.  This  council 
was  made  the  tax-levying  and  money-appropriat- 
ing body  for  the  county  and  no  money  could 
henceforth  be  drawn  from  the  county  treasury 
except  upon  their  appropriation.  It  also  was 
given  the  sole  authority  to  issue  bonds  and  bor- 
row money.  And  so  the  county  governments  in 
Indiana  were  blocked  at  just  one  more  point  and 
the  county  commissioners  were  made  just  one 
shade  less  accountable  than  they  were  before  the 
enactment  of  this  ingenious  piece  of  ''reform'* 
legislation. 

Two  of  the  New  England  states  developed 
equally  clever  methods  of  breaking  down  financial 
responsibility.  New  Hampshire,  with  its  boards 
of  commissioners  elected  by  the  people  of  the  V 
counties  would  seem  to  be  well-equipped  with 
fiscal  agencies.     But  not  so!     The  commissioners 


38  THE  COUNTY 

may  only  recommend  appropriations  for  county 
expenses — and  a  "convention,"  consisting  of  the 
members  of  the  House  of  Representatives  of  the 
various  towns  then  allows,  or  disallows,  them. 
Such  an  institution  was  created  many  years  ago. 
Connecticut  goes  New  Hampshire  one  better  by 
constituting  the  convention  of  the  local  members 
of  both  houses  of  the  legislature.  The  convention 
may  not  only  vote  the  amount  of  the  general 
county  appropriation,  but  the  appropriation  for 
any  specific  items  of  county  expenditures  for  the 
two  fiscal  years  following,  or  for  the  repairs  and 
alterations  of  county  buildings. 

Democracy  via  complication  was  applied  also 
in  the  state  of  New  Jersey,  when  the  legislature 
of  1898  took  from  the  board  of  chosen  freeholders 
(supervisors)  of  Hudson  County  the  control  over 
the  Hudson  County  Boulevard.  An  act  passed 
in  that  year  created  a  separate  new  commission 
of  three  members  to  be  elected  by  the  people, 
upon  which  was  conferred  powers  comparable 
to  those  of  a  separate  municipality.  The  com- 
mission was  even  given  the  right  to  maintain  a 
separate  police  force,  to  own  and  operate  a  separ- 
ate electric  lighting  plant,  to  employ  its  own  clean- 
ing and  repairing  force  and  to  act  in  other  ways 
entirely  separate  from  the  county  road  and  highway 
system  and  independent  of  the  street  departments 
of  those  municipalities  through  which  the  road  lies. 
This  independent  body  was  authorized  to  fix  its 
own  appropriations  and  make  them  mandatory 


THE  "JUNGLE"  39 

upon  the  board  of  chosen  freeholders,  to  let  all 
contracts  for  the  construction  of  the  roads  under 
its  charge  and  to  employ  a  separate  engineer. 

When  Hudson  County  began  to  lay  out  its 
park  system,  the  disintegration  of  the  county 
system  was  carried  a  step  further.  Another  wing 
was  added  to  the  amorphous  county  structure, 
a  Park  Commission  to  be  composed  of  four  mem- 
bers. These  were  not  to  be  elected  like  the  Boule- 
vard commissioners,  or  appointed  by  an  executive, 
as  is  done  in  most  cities,  or  chosen  by  the  board 
of  chosen  freeholders,  but  appointed  by  the  Judge 
of  the  Court  of  Common  Pleas !  This  commission 
also  became  a  separate  corporation,  like  the 
Boulevard  Commission,  and  now  has  power  to 
requisition  appropriations  on  the  board  of  chosen 
freeholders. 

But  the  end  of  the  tale  is  not  yet.  In  1912, 
Hudson  County  undertook  the  extermination  of 
mosquitoes.  Another  independent  board!  More 
independent  mandatory  powers  of  appropriation!  ' 
And  the  appointment  of  six  members  in  this  in- 
stance was  vested  in  the  Judge  of  the  Supreme 
Court.  Add  to  this  layout  a  board  of  elections,  ^ 
appointed  by  the  governor,  on  the  nomination  of 
the  chairmen  of  the  two  leading  political  parties, 
and  you  have  the  county  jungle  in  all  its  primeval 
grandeur. 

The  people  of  New  Jersey  \/ere  thoroughly 
consistent  in  1900  when  their  legislature  broke 
with   precedent  and   undertook   to   supply   their 


a 


40  THE  COUNTY 

counties  of  the  first  class  with  some  sort  of  a 
head  by  creating  the  office  of  county  supervisor. 
The  governing  boards  of  these  counties  were  at 
that  time  composed  of  representatives  from  vari- 
ous municipalities.  So  it  was  decided,  in  order  to 
give  the  whole  people  a  voice  in  the  government, 
to  have  the  new  officer  elected  at  large.  The 
legislature  had  no  notion  of  giving  anyone  any 
new  power.  They  proposed  to  further  subdivide 
existing  power.  True,  the  law  under  which  this 
new  office  was  created,  designates  the  supervisor 
as  the  chief  executive.  But,  as  has  so  often 
been  the  case  in  city  charters,  this  designation 
proved  to  be  only  a  fiction.  The  law  gave  the 
supervisor  the  right  to  remove  subordinates,  but 
no  instrumentality  with  which  to  investigate  the 
conduct  of  hundreds  of  county  officers  and  em- 
ployees and  thus  to  make  his  authority  effective. 
Moreover,  he  was  crippled  by  the  fact  that  the 
board  of  freeholders  might  reverse  his  decisions 
and  reinstate  the  officers  or  employees  suspended. 
But  what  is  of  more  importance,  the  supervisor 
was  given  no  power  of  original  appointment. 

Similarly,  Cook  County,  111.,  acquired  a  president 
of  the  board  of  county  commissioners,  who  is 
elected  by  the  people.  Kings  County,  N.  Y.,  before 
consolidation  with  New  York  City,  had  a  super- 
visor-at-large.  But  neither  of  these  dignitaries 
has  or  had  any  powers  of  appointment  comparable 
to,  let  us  say,  those  of  the  mayor  of  Cleveland  or 
of  New  York.     In  the  general  run  of  counties, 


THE  "JUNGLE"  41 

the  executive  is  not  a  single  officer  but  the  govern- 
ing board  itself.  Where  the  "town  plan"  is  in 
vogue,  as  in  certain  Illinois  counties,  and  through- 
out New  York  State,  this  body  may  be  very  large 
and  unwieldy  and  is  wholly  incapable  of  super- 
vising administrative  detail,  except  through  small 
committees,  with  the  added  division  of  responsi- 
bility which  that  implies. 

And  so,  county  government  everywhere  was  v 
conceived  in  a  spirit  of  negation.  The  people 
elect  their  boards  of  supervisors  or  county  com- 
missioners, hoping  thereby  to  keep  their  fingers 
on  the  public  purse  through  direct  agents.  The 
supervisors,  in  their  turn,  undertake  to  regulate 
the  finances  of  the  sheriff,  the  district  attorney, 
the  county  clerk  and  the  rest.  But,  lo,  these 
officers  are  no  subordinates  of  theirs;  they  are  the 
people's  humble  servants.  The  supervisors  may 
set  out  upon  a  program  of  economy  and  efficiency, 
including,  let  us  say,  the  standardization  of  sup- 
plies. But  the  county  clerk  may  not  recognize  ,  / 
their  superior  authority,  preferring  to  run  his  office/^ 
to  suit  his  personal  convenience;  and  if  the  super- 
visors undertake  to  check  him  he  may  find  some 
way  of  appealing  to  the  people.  The  superin- 
tendent of  the  poor,  the  treasurer  and  the  auditor 
may  likewise  go  their  respective  paces  in  defiance 
of  all  superior  authority.  If  in  the  course  of  their 
official  routine  these  officers  collect  sundry  fees, 
they  may  account  for  them  or  not,  as  they  please, 
so  far  as  the  governing  body  is  concerned.     They 


42  THE  COUNTY 

may  be  reached  by  some  slow  process  of  litigation, 
but  never  in  the  direct  summary  way  that  is 
employed  in  private  business.  It  is  a  fatally 
ineffectual  procedure.  And  when  a  dozen  or 
nineteen  officers,  chosen  by  popular  election,  are 
thrown  together,  it  is  clear  that  every  one  of  them 
is  the  legal  peer  of  every  other,  since  everyone 

J  acknowledges  a  common  superior.  And  since 
the  people  are  a  rather  too  unwieldy  body  to  look 
after  the  details  of  county  business,  each  officer 
must  be  a  law  unto  himself.  And  it  is  perhaps 
just  as  well  that  none  of  them  has  been  designated 
as  an  official  chief,  since  the  jacts  of  organization 
would  refute  and  nullify  any  such  arrangement. 

It  is  as  though  a  board  of  directors  were  charged 
with  the  control  of  a  private  enterprise,  but  were 
expressly  denied  the  power  to  select  the  manager 

'  and  heads  of  departments  to  whom  they  might 
delegate  their  authority  over  details. 


CHAPTER  VI 

A   BASE  OF   POLITICAL   SUPPLIES 

In  the  course  of  its  democratic  adventures  the 
county  was  incapacitated  for  standing  on  its  own 
feet.  When  every  independent  elective  officer 
became  a  law  to  himself,  the  county  ceased  to  be 
a  single  government.  Politically  it  became  then 
little  more  than  a  convenient  way  of  speaking  of  a 
group  of  officers  whose  field  of  activity  was  closely 
related.  In  these  very  close  relations  lay  the 
material  for  serious  conflicts  of  interest  that 
brought  friction,  delays,  inaction.  County  gov- 
ernments could  really  get  nowhere.  Their  ener-*'' 
gies  were  consumed  in  standing  still  and  keeping 
alive.  Since  separate  officers  of  the  county  had 
no  common  superior,  the  county  could  not  move 
in  any  particular  direction;  no  more  than  an 
army  of  self-directing  divisions,  each  with  a  will 
of  its  own. 

Moreover  there  came  to  be  counties  which  could 
not  even  organize  themselves,  even  after  the 
imperfect  fashion  described  in  the  laws  of  the 
state.  The  people  grew  in  numbers,  their  inter- 
ests increased  in  complexity  and  county  affairs 

43 


44  THE  COUNTY 

sank  into  comparative  insignificance.  In  their 
theory  of  pure  democracy  via  the  ballot,  they 
spread  out  their  interest  in  county  officers  so 
thin  that  no  single  officer  got  sufficient  attention 
to  make  him  realize  their  influence.  County 
candidates  were  mixed  up  on  the  ballot  with  a 
multitude  of  others,  state,  national  and  munici- 
pal, so  that  it  was  practically  certain  that  not 
only  unknown  but  often  undesirable  citizens  would 
step  into  power  with  the  "people's"  stamp  of 
approvaL  The  voters  of  New  York  have  been 
electing  coroners  (or  have  been  thinking  they  did) . 
When  a  few  people  in  19 14  began  to  delve  into 
the  history  of.  the  office,  they  turned  up  an  aston- 
ishing situation.  Scarcely  one  of  the  men  who 
had  been  elected  to  the  office  in  a  period  of  twelve 
years  could  be  said  to  have  had  even  a  modest 
part  of  the  qualifications  required  for  the  posi- 
tions. Some  of  the  worst  rascals  of  all  had  been 
elected  in  reform  administrations  and  as  one 
coroner  admitted  on  the  stand,  the  controlling 
purpose  in  mind  in  the  selection  was  that  of 
''balancing  the  ticket"  so  that  geographical  sec- 
tions and  racial  and  religious  elements  would  get 
their  proper  share  in  the  spoils. 

Rural  electorates  probably  have  done  better    1 
'all  along  the  line  with  their  county  officers  than 
J  the  voters  in  the  cities.     Measured  by  the  stand- 
ards of  personal  acquaintanceship,  the  candidates 
for  county  office  have  perhaps  nearly  always  been 
known    quantities    in    the    rural    districts.     The 


A  BASE  OF  POLITICAL  SUPPLIES        45 

"glad-hander"  and  the  accomplished  back-slapper 
has  gotten  on  famously.  They  have  made 
business  of  knowing  everybody.  And  yet  the 
have  sometimes,  as  private  individuals,  failed  to 
reveal  to  their  most  intimate  friends  the  qualities 
which  have  made  them  unfit  for  a  public  triii'st. 
Placed  in  offices  of  conspicuous  responsibility 
where  the  sunlight  of  public  opinion  and-  Criticism 
has  beat  upon  them,  it  is  impossible  that  many 
men  would  have  gone  far  wrong.  But  since  the 
work  of  county  officers  has  had  little  to  do  with 
the  shaping  of  public  policies  upon  which  the 
average  voter  has  any  opinion;  since  the  county 
jail  has  not  been  a  public  museum  where  men 
were  wont  to  take  their  friends  and  families,  and 
since  there  has  been  nothing  especially  interesting 
about  the  serving  of  a  warrant  of  arrest  or  attach- 
ment, the  officers  involved  have  not  always  re- 
vealed their  innermost  personal  qualities.  Year 
after  year  a  smiling  popular  sheriff  might  go  on 
doing  these  services  in  the  most  expensive,  ineffi- 
cient way,  with  here  and  there  a  touch  of  corrup- 
tion; and  the  great  body  of  voters  who  met  him 
every  week  at  the  lodge  would  be  none  the  wiser. 
In  the  same  way  the  voters  might  elect  a  "good 
fellow  "  superintendent  of  the  poor.  They  might 
continue  to  know  him  as  a  good  fellow  but  it  has 
been  a  rare  constituency  that  has  followed  him  up 
in  his  official  duties  to  know  how  ''good "  he  was  to 
the  unfortunates  under  his  care  and  to  the  public 
in  general.     It  has  been  a  rare  good  fellow  who 


/ 


46  THE  COUNTY 

has  combined  in  his  single  person  the  ability  to 
shake  every  right  hand  and  kiss  every  baby  in 
the  county,  with  a  really  modem,  scientific 
knowledge  of  the  treatment  of  poverty.  . 

The  county  clerk  upon  assuming  office  shuts 
himself  away  in  a  forest  of  filing  cases  and  meets 
the  public  officially  only  as  they  come  to  him  for 
a  marriage  license  or  to  file  a  deed  or  mortgage. 
And  as  for  the  coroner,  mostly  people  have  been 
glad  to  leave  him  severely  alone,  trusting  that  no 
untoward  mishap  will  bring  them  into  his  clutches. 
For  all  ordinary  purposes  they  have  regarded 
him  as  a  grim  joke,  not  knowing  that  in  many 
cases  a  misstep  on  his  part  might  result  in  the 
escape  of  a  criminal  or  spoil  the  case  of  a  litigant 
entitled  to  damages  or  of  a  policyholder  to  his 
insurance. 

A  possible  exception  to  this  inconspicuousness 
is  the  district  attorney.  American  communities/ 
appear  to  have  reserved  high  political  honors  to 
the  most  efficient  and  best  advertised  ''man- 
hunter."  A  white  light  of  public  interest  has 
always  beat  upon  the  public  prosecutor.  Many 
a  reputation  for  skill  and  courage  and  all-around 
general  administrative  ability  has  been  built  up 
around  a  record  of  convictions  of  notorious  crimi- 
nals. The  district  attorney  with  a  sense  of  the 
dramatic  has  usually  been  in  line  for  the  governor- 
ship of  his  state.  It  seems  also  to  be  regarded  as 
conducive  to  efficiency  that  this  officer  should 
be  controlled  directly  through  the  ballot. 


A  BASE  OF  POLITICAL  SUPPLIES        47 

And  so,  the  system  of  popular  election  has  given 
no  assurance  that,  though  the  people  may  know 
them  ever  so  well  as  individuals,  they  would  know 
their  candidates  in  the  sense  that  fixes  their 
electoral  responsibility. 

What  has  had  to  be  done,  but  what  the  people 
of  the  county  have  been  unwilling  or  unable  to  do 
for  themselves,  has  given  to  a  public-minded  frac- 
tion of  the  community  the  opportunity  of  their 
lives.  They  have  generously  taken  over  the  peo-  / 
pie's  government  and  run  it  for  them. 

Gradually  there  has  come  to  life  a  new  profes- 
sion, a  governing  class,  with  leadership,  discipline  ^ 
and  resources.  To  the  acknowledged  head  of  this 
fraternity  have  come  aspirants  to  public  honors 
and  seekers  after  favors.  Power  and  influence 
have  been  laid  at  his  feet.  He  has  become  the 
virtual  dictator  of  the  county's  political  destinies. 
The  laws  underlying  the  organization  of  the 
county  government  have  not  been  changed;  but 
there  has  grown  up,  quite  outside  the  statute 
books  and  outside  the  court  house  itself,  a  second 
government  that  has  supplied  the  great  lack  in 
the  official,  legal  one,  the  lack  of  a  definite  head. 
The  new  factor  in  the  county's  affairs  has  come 
to  exercise  the  powers  of  an  executive.  Theoreti- 
cally the  people  have  elected  his  heads  of  depart- 
ments; practically  he  has  chosen  them  himself. 
The  people  have  retained  the  forms  while  he  has 
arrogated  to  himself  the  substance  of  political 
power. 


48  THE  COUNTY 

He  is  with  us  yet,  this  clever,  dominating,  often 
silent  personage,  sometimes  in  a  single  individual, 
sometimes  in  a  group,  sometimes  benevolent, 
/  respectable  and  public-spirited,  sometimes  brutal 
and  mercenary.  It  may  not  always  be  easy  to 
find  him,  but  he  is  always  present  in  every  American 
county;  for  there  is  no  stable  government  without 
him. 

For  the  development  of  his  peculiar  talents  the 
county  is  a  particularly  favorable  environment. 
For  the  county,  in  a  word,  is  in  the  shadow — the 
ideal  condition  for  complete  irresponsibility,  which 
is  the  father  of  bossism. 

But  what  do  the  voters  do  if  they  do  not  in  fact 
elect  their  officers? 

It  is  now  perfectly  well  known  to  students  of 
political  science  that  what  the  usual  run  of  voter 
does  in  such  a  case  is  to  ratify  one  or  the  other 
set  of  candidates  who  have  been  previously  culled 
over  by  the  county  committee  of  either  party. 
It  is  true  that,  under  the  direct  primary  system, 
independent  voters  may  start  a  revolt  if  the  poli- 
ticians do  something  that  is  particularly  "bold" 
and  **raw."  But  even  that  privilege  is  of  ques- 
tionable value,  for  it  breaks  down  even  the  kind 
of  responsibility  that  obtains  under  the  rule  of  an 
unofficial  executive,  since  the  boss,  if  criticized 
for  a  bad  selection,  is  always  able  to  fall  back 
upon  the  explanation  that  ''the  people  did  it 
themselves." 

And  when  the  votes  have  been  counted  and  the 


A  BASE  OF  POLITICAL  SUPPLIES        49 

candidates  chosen,  what  of  the  citizens  and  the 
politicians  then?  Armed  with  a  certificate  of 
election  "direct  from  the  people,"  the  sheriff ,  the 
coroner,  the  county  clerk,  owe  no  legal  allegiance 
to  anyone  save  to  them.  But  the  people  have 
finished  watching  the  election  count  and  have 
gone  home  and  back  to  work  on  concerns  which 
are  infinitely  more  absorbing  than  any  which  affects 
the  county  government. 

Then  there  comes  into  play  another  political 
allegiance  which  is  not  of  law.  The  "governing 
class,"  which  gave  the  separate  county  officers 
their  jobs,  is  not  in  business  for  its  health.  It 
does  not  put  men  in  paid  positions  Out  of  pure 
bigness  of  heart.  It  performs  a  public  service 
and  it  earns  a  right  to  collect  a  toll.  And  it  col-  •  /■ 
lects!  The  bosses  collect  "theirs"  not  only  in 
terms  of  power  to  name  the  officers  whom  the 
people  shall  elect,  but  insofar  as  no  bothersome 
civil  service  law  is  in  the  way  they  select  also  the 
subordinates.  And  through  this  power  of  ap- 
pointment they  exercise  various  other  powers 
which  make  them  to  all  intents  and  purposes  the 
real  seat  of  final  authority  in  the  county. 

And  so  we  see  the  workings  of  a  natural  law. 
In  nature  the  organism  that  survives  is  that  /' 
naturally  selected  one  that  adapts  itself  to  its 
environment.  Just  so  the  American  democracy 
has  adapted  itself  to  the  difficult  political  situation 
which  it  has  itself  created.  The  political  unit, 
which  in  the  present  instance  is  the  county,  is 
4 


50  THE  COUNTY 

legally  without  a  head ;  forthwith  instead  of  going 
to  pieces,  it  grows  this  necessary  piece  of  anatomy 
outside  its  own  body,  and  lo,  an  altogether  unwork- 
able system  is  made  tolerably  workable ! 

One  reason  why  the  boss  flourishes  so  bounti- 
fully in  the  county  is  the  almost  complete  lack 
of  any  special  legal  qualifications  for  filling  the 
J  offices  (except  the  district  attorneyship) .  Any- 
body can  be  a  county  clerk.  He  need  only  ap- 
point as  his  chief  deputy  a  faithful  easy-going 
person  who  has  been  on  the  job  for  years  at  a 
stretch  and  has  made  himself  indispensable  as  a 
master  of  the  details  of  the  office.  This  deputy 
will,  of  course,  be  the  real  county  clerk  and  he 
will  draw  a  comparatively  modest  salary  because 
he  is  of  no  direct  use  to  the  "organization,"  while 
the  elected  official  collects  the  high  compensation, 
spends  a  little  time  in  the  office  every  day,  divid- 
ing the  rest  between  the  interests  of  the  "ring" 
and  his  own  legitimate  private  business,  which 
goes  right  on  as  usual  throughout  his  term. 

Another  attraction  in  the  county  offices  is  the 
large  fees  which  are  paid  in  probably  the 
majority  of  counties  in  lieu  of  stated  salaries. 
The  county  clerk  collects  from  the  person  im- 
mediately benefited,  a  sum  fixed  by  statute  for 
each  document  filed.  The  sheriff  makes  similar 
collections  for  the  service  of  each  legal  process. 
The  coroner  draws  from  the  county  a  fixed  amount 
for  each  inquest. 

The  theory  of  the  fee  system  is,  first,  that  the 


A  BASE  OF  POLITICAL  SUPPLIES        51 

service  is  paid  for  by  the  party  whom  it  most 
concerns  and  secondly,  that  a  specific  reward  for 
a  specific  service  will  be  an  incentive  to  the  officer 
to  do  his  duty.  Nearly  everywhere,  however,  the 
theory  has  worked  out  very  badly.  It  is  doubtless 
proper  that  every  person  who  receives  special 
service  should  contribute  accordingly  to  the 
expense  of  government.  In  small  counties  where 
the  work  of  the  county  is  limited  there  seems  also 
to  be  much  to  be  said  in  favor  of  the  officer  keeping 
the  fees.  But  in  large  counties  having  an  enor- 
mous business  the  compensation  from  this  source 
is  often  all  out  of  proportion  to  the  amount  of 
service  rendered.  It  would  seem,  for  instance, 
that  the  sheriff  of  New  York  County,  who  is 
never  a  man  of  special  training,  would  be  amply 
compensated  for  his  routine  services  by  a  salary 
of  $12,000.  But  in  addition  to  this  sum  he  is 
now  (191 6)  receiving  annually  about  $60,000  in  1/ 
fees.  The  county  treasurer  of  Cook  County, 
111.,  within  very  recent  years,  is  said  to  have  pock- 
eted during  his  four-year  term  about  the  better 
part  of  $500,000, — he  was  never  willing  to  tell 
the  public  just  what  the  amount  was  and  the  law 
has  protected  his  policy  of  silence. 

But  it  must  not  be  supposed  that  these  rich 
prizes  remain  the  personal  property  of  an  indi- 
vidual officer.  Nor  is  it  to  be  supposed  that  the 
numerous  deputyships  which  often  provide  berths 
at  a  much  higher  compensation  than  would  be 
allowed  for  the  same  service  under  private  auspices, 


52  THE  COUNTY 

go  to  enrich  the  head  of  the  office.  No,  the  man 
or  the  men,  who  put  the  sheriff  or  the  county 
treasurer  where  they  are  have  a  great  deal  to  say 
about  the  disposition  of  this  money.  In  New 
Jersey,  lest  a  single  county  officer  should  take 
himself  too  seriously  in  this  respect,  the  law  pro- 
vides that  all  appointments  of  the  sheriff  shall 
be  confirmed  by  the  board  of  freeholders — and 
confirmation  means  control.  If  the  Cook  County 
treasurer  had  kept  the  fees  of  his  office,  it  is  hardly 
to  be  supposed  that  the  county  commissioners  for 
years  would  have  bitterly  fought  to  prevent  an 
accounting  for  these  funds. 

The  county  is  indeed  a  wonderfully  bountiful 
base  of  supplies  for  the  spoilsmen.  The  circum- 
stance goes  far  to  explain  the  slow  growth  of  the 
merit  system  in  this  branch  of  government.  Civil 
service  laws  are  in  force  to-day  in  eighteen  counties 
in  New  York,  four  in  New  Jersey,  one  in  Colorado, 
one  in  Illinois,  two  in  California  and  the  more  im- 
portant counties  in  Ohio.  That  is  the  extent  of 
the  merit  system  in  counties.  Even  in  states  like 
Massachusetts,  Illinois  and  Wisconsin,  where  state- 
wide civil  service  laws  affecting  cities  are  in  opera- 
tion, appointments  in  the  county  offices  are  filled  on 
the  principle  of  "to  the  victor  belong  the  spoils." 
In  New  York  State  the  courts  have  enunciated 
a  principle  with  reference  to  the  relation  between 
the  sheriff  and  his  deputies  which  has  the  effect 
of  fortifying  the  system  against  attack  and  its 
most  prolific  outlet.     For,  said  the  court  in  Fla- 


A  BASE  OF  POLITICAL  SUPPLIES        53 

herty  vs.  Milliken,^  "the  relation  between  a  sheriff 
and  his  appointees  is  not  merely  that  the  sheriff 
is  responsible  for  the  default  of  his  appointee, 
but  that  the  appointee  for  said  default  is  liable 
to  the  sheriff  and  to  no  one  else.''  "The  practical 
operation  of  this  rule  of  personal  agency,"  says 
the  New  York  Civil  Service  Commission,  "is  in 
large  measure  to  open  the  door  for  political  pur- 
poses of  persons  in  whom  no  real  trust  is  reposed. 
These  offices  are  in  practice  found  to  be  a  haven 
for  political  spoilsmen.  ..." 

But  "spoils"  often  connotes  something  besides 
jobs  that  pay  salaries  or  fees.  In  Westchester 
County,  N.  Y.,  where  county  affairs  are  known 
to  the  public  rather  more  intimately  than  else- 
where (owing  to  the  activities  of  the  local  Research 
Bureau),  it  has  been  found  that  perhaps  the 
richest  patronage  of  all  is  in  the  county  advertis- 
ing. The  state  of  New  York  requires,  for  in- 
stance, the  publication  in  every  county  of  the 
complete  session  law^s  of  the  legislature,  in  two 
papers.  It  means  the  setting  up  in  newspaper 
type  of  two  or  more  large  legal  volumes  of  intri- 
cate matter  that  no  one  could  possibly  use  in 
that  form.  Then  there  are  multitudinous  formal 
legal  notices  that  issue  from  the  various  offices  at 
the  court  house,  that  rarely,  in  the  nature  of  the 
case,  interest  more  than  the  two  or  three  parties 
who  may  never  see  them  at  all.     Every  paper 

^  New  Jersey  courts  have  rendered  a  diametrically  opposite 
opinion. 


54  THE  COUNTY 

that  prints  this  material  gets  paid,  often  at  a 
much  higher  rate  than  it  would  be  compensated 
for  ordinary  commercial  work.  In  one  case  an 
honest  printer  in  Westchester  County  was  so 
indiscreet  and  independent  as  to  submit  to  the 
Board  of  Supervisors  a  bill  at  something  approxi- 
mating a  fair  rate, — $600.  His  rivals  remon- 
strated and  undertook  to  get  him  to  raise  his  figure 
' — they  were  charging  $1060  for  the  same  matter. 
But  the  independent  said:  *'No,  $600  is  the  legal 
price  and  moreover  it  is  good  pay."  The  board 
audited  his  claim  and  of  course  cut  down  the 
rival  papers  accordingly, — but  never  thereafter 
did  the  county  printing  go  to  the  man  who  wanted 
to  be  fair  to  the  public. 

Papers  that  go  in  for  public  advertising  could 
not  in  many  cases  exist  without  it.  Indeed  many 
papers  are  created  for  the  purpose  of  absorbing 
this  business.  Their  circulation  is  usually  limited 
to  a  few  hundred  copies.  They  cannot  afford  to 
criticize  the  administration  in  power  or  to  express 
themselves  independently  on  any  public  issue. 
Where  there  are  several  such  organs  in  a  county 
(Westchester  has  about  twenty)  the  newspaper 
field  tends  to  be  closed  effectively  against  the 
type  of  legitimate  journal  which  would  exercise  a 
wholesome  influence  on  public  opinion. 

Just  to  what  extent  and  how  intensely  this 
stifling  influence  exists  throughout  the  country  is 
one  of  the  really  dark  secrets  of  the  county  prob- 
lem.    It  shows  its  head  in  so  many  widely  sepa- 


A  BASE  OF  POLITICAL  SUPPLIES        55 

rated  places  and  there  are  so  many  feeble 
"boiler-plate"  weekly  papers  that  carry  county 
advertising,  that  one  is  led  to  suspect  that  it  is 
a  very  pervasive  factor,  especially  in  rural  politics. 

The  importance  of  county  spoils  is  not  merely 
local.  Throughout  the  northern  states,  except 
in  New  England,  the  county  is  undoubtedly  the 
strongest  link  in  the  whole  nation-wide  system  of 
party  organization.  Party  politicians  hoot  when 
reformers  suggest  that  local  politics  has  nothing 
to  do  with  the  tariff  or  the  Mexican  question. 
And  they  are  right!  Whether  properly  or  im- 
properly, it  has  very  much  to  do  with  these  ques- 
tions, or  rather  with  the  selection  of  the  men  who 
handle  them.  The  power,  for  instance,  of  Tam- 
many Hall  in  national  politics  is  measured  by 
its  power  to  swing  the  most  populous  county  in 
what  is  usually  a  pivotal  state.  Its  power  in  the 
county  is  in  direct  ratio  to  the  number  of  offices 
with  which  it  may  reward  party  service. 

Party  organization  for  a  great  part  of  the  coun- 
try has  the  county  committee  as  its  basis.  This 
is  especially  true  of  the  Republican  Party  in 
Pennsylvania  where  the  present  organization 
dates  back  prior  to  the  Civil  War.  The  state 
committee  is  chosen  from  districts  based  upon  \ 
counties  and  the  state  machine  is  an  assembling 
of  all  the  local  cogs  and  wheels.  Politicians 
think  and  talk  in  terms  of  counties  in  their  party 
councils  and  in  the  legislature.  State  machines 
are  principally  an  assemblage  of  county  units. 


56  THE  COUNTY 

In  many  states  legislative  representatives  are 
chosen  from  county  districts. 

Trace  the  political  record  of  the  members  of 
Congress.  An  astonishing  proportion  have  come 
up  either  through  county  offices  or  through  state 
legislative  positions  filled  by  general  county 
tickets.  To  that  extent  the  national  legislature 
is  the  fruit  of  the  county  system.  And  is  it  not 
safe  to  say,  with  the  selection  of  certain  Congress- 
men in  mind,  that  the  stream  of  national  politics  is 
poisoned  at  the  source? 

It  is  not  strange  that  machine  politicians  have 
come  to  look  upon  the  county  as  a  source  whence 
blessings  flow.  The  county  has  both  created  and 
sustained  them! 


CHAPTER  VII 

URBAN   COUNTIES 

The  county  has  been  put  to  its  severest  test  in 
modem  urban  communities. 

In  the  latter  part  of  the  eighteenth  century^ 
began  the  away-from-the-farm  movement.  The 
discovery  of  steam  power  and  its  application  to 
every  department  of  industry  began  to  draw  men, 
women  and  children  from  their  homes  to  earn  a 
livelihood  in  the  new  industrial  order.  It  became 
necessary  for  them  to  congregate  in  factories; 
they  could  no  longer  spread  themselves  out  over 
the  countryside.  Out  of  the  factory  system  came 
the  city,  came  hundreds  of  cities  along  the  coasts 
and^  rivers  and  even  on  the  open  prairies.  New 
methods  of  transportation  accelerated  the  process. 
The  movement  has  never  stopped;  not  even  yet, 
when  more  than  a  third  of  the  country's  inhabit- 
ants are  living  in  cities  of  twenty-five  thousand 
inhabitants  and  more.  Out  of  the  growth  of 
cities  came  congestion  of  population;  out  of 
congestion,  problems  of  very  existence  without 
number. 

The  colonial  heritage  of  local  government  was 

57 


58  THE  COUNTY 

wholly  unadapted  to  any  such  emergency.  In 
simple  pioneer  communities  it  was  easy  to  provide 
government  that  met  the  unexacting  standards 
of  the  times.  Efficient  government  was  not  a 
live  issue.  Government,  good  or  bad,  was  little 
needed  and  there  was  little  of  it.  And  if  that 
little  was  ill-conceived,  what  matter? 

VBut  the  time  came  when  local  government  began 
to  feel  the  strain  of  new  responsibilities.  Cities 
failed  miserably  — ' '  conspicuously. ' '  Counties 
failed  even  more  miserably  but  without  ob- 
servation. It  was  not  so  much  that  local  govern- 
ment was  called  upon  to  perform  more  services, 
but  that  it  was  to  adapt  itself  to  new  conditions 
of  service,  to  execute  old  forms  of  service  in  a 
more  intensive  fashion.  For  instance,  in  a  general 
way,  the  state  had  charged  the  county  with  the 
protection  of  life.  '  Under  rural  conditions  the 
obligation  seems  to  have  been  performed  tolerably 
well,  because  violations  of  the  law  are  rarer  where 
population  is  thin.  A  sheriff,  with  the  help  of  a 
few  constables  and  the  power  to  summon  citizens 
to  his  aid  in  times  of  special  emergency,  was  all 
the  police  that  was  needed  in  most  communities. 
With  the  growth  of  the  city  the  police  problem 
was  intensified  even  out  of  proportion  to  the 
numbers  of  the  people.  Keeping  the  peace  came 
to  mean  no  longer  the  mere  matter  of  quelling 
disturbances.  The  city  with  its  teeming  popula- 
tion not  only  bred  violence  and  disorder,  but  it 
afforded    opportunities    for    immunity    through 


URBAN  COUNTIES  59 

concealment.  A  new  police  problem  quite  foreign 
to  the  capacities  of  the  ancient  office  of  sheriff 
grew  up.  The  city  had  to  meet  the  professional, 
scientific  criminal  with  specialized  instrumentali- 
ties and  organization.  Crowds  on  the  congested 
city  streets  had  to  be  taken  care  of  and  numerous 
other  incidentals  of  the  congested  city  had  to  be 
foreseen. 

The  city  likewise  developed  an  entirely  new 
problem  of  public  charity,  w^hich  quite  outgrew 
the  capacities  of  that  amateur  sociologist,  the 
county  poormaster. 

The  coroner,  too,  sadly  missed  the  mark  in 
numerous  cases.  In  the  new  industrial  order  in 
the  cities,  not  only  was  criminal  violence  multi- 
plied but  industrial  fatalities  added  heavily  to 
the  terrors  of  city  life  for  the  working  class.  The 
civil  liabilities  which  were  imposed  upon  employers 
and  upon  insurance  companies  made  it  more  than 
ever  important  that  every  sudden  or  suspicious 
death  be  investigated  with  the  utmost  scientific 
thoroughness.  Such  service  it  was  of  course 
impossible  for  the  untrained  elective  political 
coroner  to  render,  and  the  world  will  never  know 
the  costly  mistakes  that  are  chargeable  to  his 
inexpertness. 

In  the  fullness  of  time  court  organization  also 
revealed  the  necessity  for  differentiation  between 
various  classes  of  cases  which  were  presented  for 
settlement.  Again,  the  protection  of  life  against 
communicable  diseases  and  of  property  against 


6o  THE  COUNTY 

fire  were  two  functions  that  the  rural  local  govern- 
ment had  completely  overlooked  or  neglected, 
and  when  urban  conditions  arose  in  the  midst  of 
the  county  there  was  nothing  in  the  original  local 
government  machinery  that  could  be  made  to 

>  respond  to  these  needs.  The  county  was  ap- 
parently stereotyped  to  minister  to  local  condi- 
tions as  they  were  conceived  in  the  seventeenth 
and  eighteenth  centuries.  Its  organization  was 
merely  adapted  to  perform  the  simple  cut-and- 
dried  services  that  had  been  laid  down  for  it  in 
centuries  gone  by.  Its  expansion  into  new  and 
bigger  fields  of  service  seems  never  to  have  been 
seriously  considered. 

But  the  pungent  fact  is  that  counties,  when  they 

V  have  ceased  to  serve  the  needs  of  urban  life,  have 

been  so  slow  to  retire  from  the  field. 

\      What  state  has  stripped  the  sheriff  of  his  power 

\to  interfere  in  a  riot  or  a  strike  to  the  infinite 

lannoyance  of  the  thousand  per  cent,  more  com- 

/petent  police  force  of  the  city?     How  very  few 

l^ates  have  shown  the  coroner  the  door  and  re- 

j  placed  him  with  a  scientifically  trained  medical 

f    examiner!     Not    less    ridiculous    the    board    of 

county  supervisors  in  great  cities  like  Chicago, 

Cleveland  and  Milwaukee,  solemnly  ruling  over  a 

territory  almost  identical  in  its  extent  with  the 

bailiwick  of  the  city  authorities.     Why  should  not 

a  single  body  do  all  the  local  regulating  ? 

And  so,  the  urban  county  problem  is  first  of  all 
a  question  of  ill-adapted  instruments  of  govern- 


URBAN  COUNTIES  6i 

ment  perpetuated  long  past  their  period  of  utility. 

In  the  second  placeJlLia_amatter  of  duplication  ""Y-- 
and  conHict  of  organization  and  effort  as  between 
the  city  and  the  county.  When  the  charter  in 
Los  Angeles  County  was  revised  in  1912  it  was 
found  that  in  the  urban  communities  three  sepa- 
rate groups  of  officers  were  charged  with  keeping  J 
the  peace:  the  sheriff  and  his  deputies,  the  con-'^ 
stables  of  the  several  townships  and  the  police 
of  the  city.  Their  duties  were  substantially  the 
same,  they  covered  the  same  ground.  The  public 
scattered  its  civic  attention  accordingly,  ^t^^as 
this  same  state  of  California  which  within  the 
last  twenty  years  has  authonzedjts  cities  to  have 
separate  tax  assessors^ — two  sets__Df-_Qfficials  to 
go  out  and  get  precisely  the  same  information. 
Ever  since  that  time  th^  taxable  property  in  the 
city  has  been  rated  differently  by  the  two  sets 
of  officers.  And  the  reason?  Apparently  a 
double  one:  to  enable  the  individual  counties  to 
beat  down  their  proportion  of  the  state  tax  and 
at  the  same  time  to  allow  the  cities  to  raise  their 
valuations  and  keep  down  the  tax  rate.  The 
political  value  of  a  double  set  of  officers  is  of 
course  not  to  be  overlooked. 

An  unpublished  report  of  the  City  Club  of 
Milwaukee  reveals  a  paralleling  of  city  and  county 
services  at  numerous  points.  The  city  was  found 
to  be  maintaining  an  emergency  hospital,  a  tuber- 
culosis sanitarium  and  a  corps  of  milk  inspectors, 
while    the    county    maintained    similar    services. 


62  THE  COUNTY 

through  a  general  hospital,  a  tuberculosis  sani- 
tarium, a  visiting  physician  and  a  district  nurse. 
The  county  jail  and  the  police  station  were  in 
close  proximity  but  under  separate  jurisdictions. 
Where  the  county  handled  public  works  through 
an  engineering  department  the  city  operated 
through  a  highway  department,  each  unit  reV, 
quiring  practically  the  same  sort  of  administrative 
and  technical  direction.  City  and  county  did 
their  purchasing  separately  and  in  the  respective 
public  works  departments  there  was  a  duplication 
of  testing  laboratories  and  of  engineering  and  other 
service  records.  Separate  city  and  county  regu- 
lative or  governing  bodies  added  materially  both 
to  the  expense  of  government  and  to  the  number 
of  elective  officers. 

Then  again,  the  urban  county,  including  judi- 
cial officers,  has  contributed  more  to  the  length 
of  the  ballot  than  any  other  division  of  govern- X 
ment.  In  the  year  1910  before  the  adoption  of 
the  present  charter,  the  Los  Angeles  city  ballot, 
which  has  been  frequently  exhibited  as  a  horrible 
example,  contained  the  names  of  candidates  for 
forty-five  separate  offices.  Twenty-eight  of  these 
belonged  to  the  county-township  system ! 

The  Chicago  voter,  as  the  result  of  the  early 
influences  plus  the  additions  to  the  number  of 
offices  which  have  been  made  from  time  to  time, 
casts  a  ballot  for  about  twenty-five  candidates, 
including  the  sheriff,  the  treasurer,  county  clerk, 
clerk  of  the  probate  court,  clerk  of  the  criminal 


URBAN  COUNTIES  63 

court,  president  of  the  county  commissioners, 
ten  county  commissioners,  judge  of  the  county 
court.  The  voter  in  Omaha,  in  addition  to  the 
usual  run  of  county  officers,  selects  also  thirty- 
two  deputy  tax  assessors,  all  on  a  single  ballot. 
In  most  states  these  officers  are  chosen  on  the 
same  day  and  on  the  same  ballot  with  a  long  list 
of  state  and  judicial  officers,  so  that  the  county 
election  is  only  an  incidental  and  minor  issue  in 
the  whole  complicated  business. 

On  election  day  the  urban  county  offices  are 
usually  found  at  the  bottom  of  the  ballot.  Usu- 
ally numerous  and  obscure  enough  in  their  own 
right  in  the  country  districts,  their  contributions 
to  the  obscurity  of  voting  in  the  city  are  more 
than  doubly  important. 

'  When  to  an  immoderately  long  ballot,  to  dupli- 
cation of  functions  as  between  county  and  city, 
there  is  added  a  multiplicity  of  local  government 
units,  all  considerations  of  responsibility  in  gov- 
ernment or  intelligence  of  citizenship  fall  to  the 
ground.  Such  is  the  case  in  Cook  County,  Illi- 
nois, where  the  Bureau  of  Public  Efficiency  has 
issued  a  striking  little  pamphlet  on  The  Nineteen 
Local  Governments  in  Chicago.  (The  number  has 
since  been  increased  to  twenty-two.)  Twenty- 
two  separate  taxing  bodies,  and  one  hundred 
and  forty-four  officials  which  every  Chicago  voter 
is  expected  to  choose!  Is  it  a  wonder  that  ''Mr. 
Voter,"  to  quote  the  title  of  an  accompanying  car- 
toon, is  "dazed?"     As  the  pamphlet  says:  "The 


64  THE  COUNTY 

large  number  of  local  governments  in  Chicago, 
with  their  very  large  number  of  elective  officials, 
independent  of  one  another,  operates  to  produce 
not  only  inefficient  public  service  but  an  enormous 
waste  of  public  revenues.  The  present  multiplicity 
of  governing  bodies,  with  a  lack  of  centralized 
control  and  the  long  ballot,  results  in  confusing 
complexity  and  makes  gross  inefficiency  and 
waste  on  a  large  scale  inevitable." 

The  city  too  has  proven  itself  an  altogether 

,  unfavorable  environment  for  clean,  active  county 
/  citizenship.  A  thousand  and  one  preoccupations 
and  distractions  in  the  city  have  strongly  tended 
to  drive  the  populace  to  forget  that  it  even  lives 
in  a  county.  The  county  does  little  for  the  city 
^  dweller.  It  does  not  keep  his  house  from  burn- 
ing or  his  pockets  from  being  picked.     It  does 

,  not  build  the  streets  on  which  he  travels  nor  per- 
form any  humane  services  which  could  stir  his 
admiration.  The  sheriff  is  no  neighbor  of  his 
nor  does  he  hear  of  that  officer  from  one  year's 
end  to  another,  unless  it  be  his  rare  fortune  to  be 
a  party  to  some  legal  action.  The  newspapers, 
to  .be  sure,  are  apt  to  give  a  great  deal  of  space  to 
criminal  trials  and  feature  the  activities  of  the 
district  attorney.  But  even  that  is  apt  to  be 
directed  more  to  metropolitan  sensationalism 
than  to  helpful  citizenship. 

The  greater  the  power  entrusted  to  the  munici- 
palities within  the  county,  the  more  interesting 
things  it  is  given  to  do,  in  just  that  measure  does 


URBAN  COUNTIES  65 

the  county  itself  suffer  from  inattention  on  the 
part  of  the  citizens,  till  the  extreme  is  reached  in 
a  condition  described  in  a  report  on  Cook  County 
by  Prof.  F.  D.  Brarohall  of  the  University  of 
Chicago : 

"The  city  corporate  stands  in  the  mind  of 
most  men  for  their  local  government;  it  has  its 
picturesque  history,  its  visible  physical  embodi- . 
ments,  its  corporate  personality,  its  stimulus 
to  the  pride  of  its  people  and  its  claim  upon  their 
loyalty.  The  county  can  make  no  such  appeal, 
and  it  is  a  political  fact  to  be  reckoned  with 
that  however  you  may  urge  that  the  county 
is  an  essential  part  of  city  government,  that  the 
city  electorate  is  almost  equivalent  to  the  county 
electorate,  and  should  assert  an  equal  proprietor- 
ship, it  is  almost  impossible  to  overcome  the 
obsession  that  the  county  is  an  alien  thing. 
There  is  no  more  serious  consequence  of  the 
parceling  out  of  our  local  governmental  powers 
and  the  shattering  of  responsibility  for  our 
municipal  housekeeping  than  just  this  forfeiture 
of  the  sense  of  identification  with  government 
and  the  force  of  local  patriotism  which  should 
be  a  tremendous  asset  for  American  political 
government." 

Without  a  doubt,  the  urban,  and  particularly  the 
metropolitan  county,  is  the  county  at  its  worst. 

5 


CHAPTER  VIII 

COUNTY  GOVERNMENTS  AT  WORK 

"Granted  the  truth  of  all  you  say;  that  every 
county  officer  stands  on  his  independent  pedestal 
of  authority,  that  the  county  is  a  headless  institu- 
tion where  responsibility  is  scattered  in  a  thousand 
different  directions;  that  urban  counties  are  the 
weakest  brothers  in  the  political  family — granted 
all  that,  but  what  of  it?" 

So  cogitates  the  ''average  American  "—or  so 
it  would  seem.  If  he  reads  his  county  paper 
consistently  he  has  been  held  in  his  seat  over  and 
over  again  by  the  hackneyed  lines  of  Pope: 

"For  forms  of  government  let  fools  contest; 
What  e'er  is  best  administered  is  best." 

After  a  long  course  of  mental  stimulation  along 
these  lines,  we  are  quite  prepared  to  hear  him 
remark  that  after  all  what  really  counts  for 
government  is  men — an  observation  which  is 
supposed  to  silence  all  contradiction.  Your  "aver- 
age" friend,  if  he  has  more  than  an  average  politi- 
cal energy,  then  goes  out  and  helps  to  see  that  the 
"right  sort"  of  man  is  elected  coroner. 

66 


COUNTY  GOVERNMENTS  AT  WORK  67 

There  is  undoubtedly  more  than  an  element  of 
truth  and  wisdom  in  all  these  sentiments.  The 
industrial  worid  is  coming  more  and  more  to 
believe  that  the  great  essential  in  cooperative 
effort  of  any  sort  is  not  plan  of  organization,  not  y, 
methods,  but  personnel — men.  And  even  gov-*^ 
emment  presents  instances  of  men  who  have 
**made  good"  conspicuously  against  a  form  of  or- 
ganization which  favored  insubordination,  against 
the  interference  of  invisible  powers,  against  the 
hundred  and  one  cunningly  devised  handicaps 
to  good  administration. 

We  might  with  good  grace  take  kindly  to  a 
system  that  brought  distinguished,  capable,  honest, 
well-qualified  men  for  the  public  service.  If  we 
could  get  good  men  and  ^ood  administration  as 
the  normal  output  of  the  existing  systems  of 
county  government,  there  would  be  satisfaction 
all  around. 

But  does  the  typical  American  government 
work  that  way?  We  shall  examine  in  this  chapter 
the  relationships  between  the  system,  the  men 
and  the  product. 

To  get  the  right  angle  on  the  subject,  we  should 
put  ourselves  in  the  position  of,  let  us  say,  the 
sheriff  of  Pike  County.  He  is  a  likable,  popular 
fellow — that  is  how  he  happens  to  be  sheriff.  His/ 
likability,  his  popularity,  have  made  him  a  par-^-~~_ 
ticularly  valuable  adjunct  of  the  Pike  County 
Republican  (or  Democratic)  organization.  In  the 
election  campaign  he  has  proven  himself  a  vote- 


I 


68  THE  COUNTY 

getter,  he  has  given  the  organization  a  respectable 
tone.  And  now  that  he  is  in  office  his  congenital 
good  nature  has  not  been  changed.  His  popu- 
larity has  been  due  to  his  unfailing  loyalty  to  his 
friends  and  supporters.  These  good  people  swarm 
about  him  on  the  first  day  of  his  term  and  he  has 
it  not  in  his  heart  to  refuse  the  only  favor  within 
his  power  to  grant. 

So  much  for  one  set  of  claimants  upon  his 
favor.  But  there  is  also  the  whole  body  of  his 
supporters,  the  general  electorate  and  the  tax- 
paying  contingent  of  the  county;  they  have  a 
claim  upon  him  too  and  the  new  sheriff  enters 
upon  his  duties  with  a  sincere  desire  to  serve  them 
by  running  his  office  in  the  most  efficient  and  eco- 
nomical manner.  The  significant  part  of  the  whole 
business  is  that  these  two  ambitions  are  more  than 
likely  to  prove  inconsistent.  Personal  friendship 
dictates  that  he  should  hand  out  deputy  ships  to 
*'the  boys"  of  his  own  heart;  public  service,  that 
he  should  ignore  the  claims  of  friendship  and  man 
his  office  with  competent  assistants,  regardless  of 
personal,  political  or  ecclesiastical  connections. 
And  so  the  new  officer,  through  a  situation  not 
of  his  own  making,  is  caught  in  a  dilemma.  Pro- 
bably nine  out  of  ten  county  officials  either 
resolve  the  difficulty  on  the  grounds  of  friendship 
or  strike  a  compromise  between  their  confficting 
desires — and  the  efficiency  of  the  office  in  either 
case  is  impaired.  Every  man  coming  into  an 
office  with  favors  to  dispense  has  strings  attached 


COUNTY  GOVERNMENTS  AT  WORK  69 

to  his  person.  He  cannot  look  his  public  duties 
quite  squarely  in  the  eye,  but  has  always  to 
qualify  every  new  plan,  every  selection  of  a  sub- 
ordinate with  ''What  wilf  the  county  chairman 
say?"  And  if  he  has  ambitions  to  hold  office 
for  a  second  tefm,  or  to'  go  higher,  he  is  naturally 
careful  about  irritating  the  goose  that  lays  the 
golden  egg.  For  the  county  chairman  is  not  apt 
to  be  keen  about  the  plans'for  economy  or  reducing 
the  number  of  jobs  for  "the  boys."  Such  plans 
do  not  fit  in  with  his  requirements. 

The  system  hamstrings  the  man.  Once  a  county 
officer  in  New  Jersey  needed  two  additional 
clerks.  Believing,  however,  that  the  board  of 
chosen  freeholders  was  following  a  strict  program 
of  economy,  he  went  to  them  asking  for  four  new 
men,  with  the  thought  that  his  requisition  would 
be  cut  in  half.  But  not  so.  The  official  and  the 
board  were  of  opposite  parties.  A  member  of 
the  board  camic  around  and  remarked  that  "you 
need  eight  new  men."  The  officer  is  said  to  have 
taken  the  hint  and  jobs  were  accordingly  provided 
for  four  deserving  members  of  each  of  the  leading 
parties. 

Lin  such  cases  it  is  clearly  not  personality  but 
e  system  that  dominates. 

The   enforced   division   of   allegiance   between 
^  party  and  people  is  but  a  single  source  of  personal 
inefficiency.     Under  the  much  lauded   "govern- 
ment of  laws"  that  reaches  the  heights  of  absurd- 
ity  in  the  county,  the  chance   of   effective    law 


70  THE  COUNTY 

enforcement  is  reduced  to  a  minimum.  Take  it 
for  instance  in  the  exact  compliance  with  statu- 
tory procedure.  The  sale  of  a  piece  of  real  estate 
for  non-payment  of  taxes,  for  instance,  must  be 
conducted  in  accord  with  a  detailed  series  of 
steps  set  forth  in  the  law,  or  the  title  of  the  prop- 
erty is  clouded.  Claims  for  payment  for  ser- 
vices rendered  or  material  supplied,  may  also  be 
legally  allowed  only  after  the  proper  formalities 
have  been  observed.  And  in  countless  other 
directions  the  efficiency  of  the  county  officers  and 
employees  must  be  measured  principally  by  a 
meticulous  obedience  to  the  law. 

But  contrast  the  necessity  with  the  perform- 
ance: The  former  chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Munici- 
pal Accounts  in  the  Comptroller's  office  of  an 
eastern  state,  after  examining  the  affairs  of  fifty- 
six  counties,  was  able  in  1914  to  say:  "In  not  a 
single  county  examined  has  there  been  found 
compliance  with  every  provision  of  law.  On  the 
contrary,  in  each  of  the  counties  examined  serious 
irregularities  in  financial  transactions  have  been 
disclosed,  and  the  taxpayers'  money  illegally 
expended,  in  some  cases  beyond  recovery." 

The  comptroller's  agents  examined  the  affairs 
of  county  "A."  Of  the  transactions  for  the  year 
ending  October  31,  191 3,  they  said:  "County 
administration  during  that  year  was  carried  on, 
in  many  important  respects,  illegally,  and  in  many 
cases  the  officials  completely  ignored  the  law, 
resulting  in   waste   of  public   money,  amounting 


COUNTY  GOVERNMENTS  AT  WORK     71 

to  many  thousands  of  dollars."  The  former 
treasurer  of  this  county,  according  to  the  official 
report,  "had,  it  would  seem,  no  proper  conception 
of  the  legal  duties  imposed  upon  him.  He  made 
payments  of  unauthorized  drafts  of  committees  of 
the  board.  .  .  .  His  important  statutory  duty  to 
pay  only  on  proper  legal  authority  apparently  con- 
stituted meaningless  words."  The  same  autliority 
reported  that: 

*'The  board  of  supervisors  ordered  payments 
that  were  without  authority  of  law,  to  the  ex- 
tent of  many  thousands  of  dollars.  The  illegal- 
ities in  the  audits  of  the  board  of  supervisors 
were  particularly  objectionable  because  of  the 
fact  that  many  of  the  subjects  of  criticism  were 
called  to  the  board's  attention  in  the  report 
of  a  former  examination.  Illegal  payments 
under  such  circumstances  became  a  defiance 
of  legal  restriction.  .  .  .  The  administration 
of  the  poor  fund  was  not  in  acco'rd  with  the 
law  and  through  a  failure  of  the  officials  to 
understand  the  requirernents  of  the  law  and 
the  necessities  of  the  count}^  the  lack  of  proper 
cooperation  between  the  county  treasurer,  the 
superintendent  of  the  poor,  and  the  board  of 
supervisors,  confusion  resulted  in  the  poor  fund 
finances  and  a  large  deficit  accumulated  which 
was  financed  by  illegal  temporary  loans.  .  .  . 
The  countv  has  suffered  to  a  material  extent  from 
inefficiency,  indifference  to  law  and  neglect." 

That  discoveries  were  by  no  means  local  or 
unique  is  indicated  by  periodical  complaints  that 
have  come  up  from  other  parts  of  the  country. 


72  THE  COUNTY 

Was  it  men,  as  such,  or  was  it  not  also  a  system 
that  gave  rise  to  the  evidences  of  bad  government 
in  County  "B."?  Did  it  simply  happen  that  the 
treasurer,  the  county  judge,  the  district  attorney, 
the  sheriff  and  the  justices  of  the  peace  were  all 
breaking  the  laws  at  once?  Is  it  to  be  supposed 
that  law-breaking  flourished  naturally  in  the 
atmosphere  of  that  particular  region?  The  per- 
formances of  these  officers  are  both  so  instructive 
and  picturesque  that  they  will  bear  a  brief  recount- 
ing here. 

The  examiners  of  the  affairs  of  this  county  a 
few  years  ago  turned  up  this  quaint  little  docu- 
ment : 

"  Ellenberg  Center,  Nov.  21,  1900. 

County  of ,Dr., 

to  Wellington  Hay. 
1898,  Sept.  22.     To  7  days'  labor  with  deputy 

sheriff  looking  up  stolen  horse $14.00 

To  paid  all  expenses 

per  above 15.60 


$29.60 

"Mr.  Hay  performed  services  in  following  up 
two  horse  thieves  who  had  stolen  his  horse  at 
my  request  as  sheriff,  one  of  the  men,  George 
Burnham,  had  several  indictments  against  him 
in  this  county  and  all  who  knew  his  doings 
were  anxious  for  his  capture,  I  certainly  think 
Mr.  Hay  should  be  paid. 

"C.  W.  Vaughan, 

''Late  Sheriff r 


COUNTY  GOVERNMENTS  AT  WORK     73 

In  this  instance,  Mr.  Hay,  a  deputy  sheriff, 
was  charging  the  county  for  chasing  up  his  own 
horse.  The  county  treasurer  who  paid  this  claim 
was  the  one  who,  in  spite  of  very  definite  provi- 
sions of  law,  had  failed  to  designate  the  banks 
which  should  have  custody  of  the  county  funds, 
and  deposited  them  with  a  favored  institution 
which  paid  the  county  no  interest;  who  failed  to 
keep  any  cash  book  or  any  account  with  any 
bank  even  on  the  stubs  of  his  check  book;  who 
allowed  at  least  one  creditor  of  the  county  to  col- 
lect an  illegal  claim  four  times.  This  is  the  county 
in  which  the  county  judge  was  found  to  have  his 
own  private  law  offices  elaborately  furnished  with 
all  the  up-to-date  filing  devices  and  blanks,  all 
at  the  public  expense ;  in  which  the  coroner  reports 
that  between  the  13th  and  the  19th  of  May  he 
had  worked  fifteen  days  and  collected  in  full  from 
the  county.  The  records  of  practically  every 
other  officer  in  the  county  revealed  similar  irregu- 
larities and  a  similar  lack  of  any  fine  sense  of 
the  interests  of  the  public. 

Did  it  just  happen  that  the  people  of  county 
**A"  or  county  **B"  elected  none  but  law-break- 
ers to  office?  Was  it  the  character  of  the  officers 
which  alone  was  responsible  for  "inefficiency,  in- 
difference to  law  and  neglect?"  Would  the  con- 
dition have  been  different  with  another  average  set 
of  men  in  office? 

This  is  certain :  that  upon  the  officers  of  county 
"A"   was  imposed   the   duty   of   enforcing   laws 


74  THE  COUNTY 

which  were  both  intricate  and  difficult  for  a  lay- 
man to  find,  and  when  found,  to  understand. 
But  over  and  above  all  this,  there  was  no  constant 
xl  discipline  of  a  responsible  organization  and  no 
certain  and  swift  penalty  for  non-compliance 
with  or  disobedience  of  the  law. 

So  difficult  is  the  case,  in  fact,  that  it  would 
seem  from  reports  emanating  from  different  parts 
of  the  country,  that  county  officers  have  long 
\  ceased  to  worry  about  the  legality  of  most  of  their 
H  acts.  A  common  practice  is  not  to  investigate 
the  law  at  all  but  to  look  back  over  the  work  of 
predecessors  and  follow  in  their  tracks — an  easier 
and  more  natural  method  for  the  untrained  mind 
than  to  seek  legal  authority  for  action  at  its 
fount ainhead  in  the  statutes.  But  it  makes  a 
joke  of  the  statutes!  And  when,  in  the  absence 
of  a  powerful  executive  head,  these  written  laws, 
which  constitute  most  important  connecting  link, 
between  the  various  county  officers,  are  broken,  the 
directing  hand  of  the  state  is  perforce  withdrawn. 

The  failures  of  government  in  these  counties 
were  due  in  no  small  measure  at  least  to  the 
^system,  rather  than  to  the  individual  men.  No 
mere  "good"  man  would  necessarily  have  been 
better  qualified  or  more  inclined  to  look  up  the 
law  and  follow  it  implicitly.  For  it  is  not  of 
such  qualities  that  political  "goodness,"  from  the 
voters*  standpoint,  consists! 

Nor  are  these  minor  delinquencies  the  sole 
products  of  the  evil  system.     In  Hudson  County, 


COUNTY  GOVERNMENTS  AT  WORK  75 

New  Jersey,  with  a  citizenry  somewhat  less  alert 
and  with  state  officials  a  little  less  vigilant,  the 
essential  factors  present  in  the  counties  men- 
tioned gave  rise  to  positive  conscienceless  and 
willful  waste  of  public  funds.  The  story  is  illu- 
minating : 

The  building  of  the  court  house  was  begun 
under  an  act  of  the  legislature  which  authorized 
a  committee  of  the  board  of  chosen  freeholders  to 
purchase  such  lands  and  erect  such  county  build- 
ings as  might  be  needed.  The  committee  was  em- 
powered to  appoint  its  own  counsel  and  architect 
to  go  ahead  and  build.  The  only  limitation  upon 
its  powers  was  that  it  should  spend  not  to  exceed 
four  fifths  of  one  per  cent,  of  the  county  ratables. 
This  was  a  restriction  which,  under  the  amount 
of  ratables  as  of  the  time  when  the  project  was 
authorized,  would  have  permitted  a  maximum 
expenditure  of  about  $1,580,000.  But  before 
even  the  contracts  had  been  let  the  growth  in 
valuations  had  so  increased  that  the  committee 
might  legally  spend  $7,500,000. 

The  original  figure  for  the  cost  of  the  court 
house  had  been  $990,000,  but  before  the  citizens 
of  the  county  were  aroused  it  reached  $3,328,016. 
Investigation  revealed  such  extravagance  and 
carelessness  with  the  county's  money  in  every 
detail,  that  the  legislature  in  191 1  abolished  the 
committee  and  created  a  court  house  commission, 
the  members  of  which  were  to  be  appointed  by 
the  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court. 


76  THE  COUNTY 

The  building  of  county  court  houses  under 
just  such  auspices  and  with  a  similar  outcome  is 
a  characteristic  bit  of  local  history  the  country 
over.  But  county  shortcomings  do  not  always 
stop  at  willful  extravagance.  Sometimes  it  is  a 
tale  of  grafting  of  the  grossest  sort,  of  which 
typical  conditions  a  story  is  related  by  Herbert 
Quick,  who  had  charge  of  an  investigation  into 
the  affairs  of  Woodbury  County,  Iowa,  some 
twenty  years  ago.  The  county  supervisors  ap- 
parently had  traveled  unobserved,  unchecked, 
along  the  same  road  but  further,  as  the  officers 
of  county  "A"  and  the  court  house  committee 
of  Hudson  County.     Says  Mr.  Quick: 

"A  supervisor  would  draw  thousands  of  dollars 
from  the  road  and  bridge  funds  on  his  own  war- 
rant, put  the  money  in  his  pocket,  and  account 
for  it  by  turning  in  receipts  for  road  or  bridge  work. 
Some  of  this  work  vv^as  done  and  some  was  not. 
Most  of  the  receipts  were  signed  by  political  sup- 
porters of  the  supervisors.  To  some  of  them  were 
signed  names  of  persons  who  never  existed. 

**  Everything  the  county  bought  was  extrava- 
gantly bought.  Any  dealer  who  was  willing  to 
put  in  padded  bills  could  get  the  chance  to  sell 
his  goods. 

"There  was  a  regular  system  of  letting  bills 
go  unpaid  so  that  the  persons  furnishing  the  goods 
would  put  in  the  statements  the  second  time,  after 
which  they  would  be  paid  twice — once  to  the 
firm  to  which  they  were  really  owing,  and  again 


COUNTY  GOVERNMENTS  AT  WORK  77 

to  one  or  more  of  the  county  ring.  In  most  cases 
the  merchant  furnishing  the  goods  never  knew  of 
the  double  payment.  They  had  a  system  of 
orders  and  receipts  by  which  the  merchant  was 
kept  in  ignorance. 

"In  some  cases  the  approaches  to  bridges  were 
built  and  charged  twice,  once  to  the  road  fund 
and  once  to  the  bridge  fund.  The  man  who  did 
the  work  got  one  payment  and  the  grafters  goty 
the  other.  The  people  paid  twice  in  these  cases, 
and  sometimes  three  times. 

"A  merchant  sold  some  blankets  to  the  county 
for  the  use  of  the  prisoners  in  the  jail.  He  was 
allowed  about  a  hundred  dollars  on  the  county 
claim  register,  but  refused  to  accept  the  payment 
and  sued  the  county.  In  court  he  recovered 
judgment  for  all  he  claimed,  and  was  paid  out  of 
the  judgment  fund.  The  general  fund  claim  he 
had  refused  to  accept  showed  as  unpaid.  Some- 
body on  the  inside  went  to  him  and  got  an  order 
for  'any  sums  due  me  from  the  county'  and  drew 
the  original  bill  over  again.  So  the  county  paid 
the  original  allowance,  the  amount  of  the  judg- 
ment, and  the  costs  of  the  law^suit.  Rather  dear 
blankets ! 

"Orders  of  this  sort  w^ere  drawn  in  the  names  of 
the  people  who  had  been  dead  for  years. 

"This  is  a  sample  of  the  sort  of  work  \vhich 
prevailed  in  that  county,  and  which  plunged  the 
county  into  debt  from  which  it  will  not  recover, 
the  w^ay  things  generally  go,  for  generations." 


78  THE  COUNTY 

In  Indiana  the  leaven  of  obscurity  and  irre- 
sponsibility had  long  been  working  when  the  state 
board  of  accounts  took  up  its  work  in  1909.  The 
records  of  that  office  since  that  time  show  that 
more  than  one  million  six  hundred  thousand 
dollars  had  been  charged  against  local  officials 
and  partly  recovered.  The  board  states  that  in 
their  belief  fully  ninety  per  cent,  of  this  was  not 
due  to  deliberate  wrongdoing  but  to  an  indulgent 
indifference,  resulting  in  an  almost  endless  confu- 
sion and  incomplete  accounts.  Like  the  county 
officers  in  many  another  state,  the  officials  in  the 
Indiana  counties,  according  to  a  message  of  former 
Governor  Mount,  "had  been  following  precedents 
on  an  ascending  scale." 

If  the  whole  trouble  lies  in  the  personnel  of 
government,  there  is  either  no  real  county  problem 
or  else  the  problem  is  unsolved.  If  it  is  merely  a 
matter  of  men,  the  voters  of  the  county  need  only, 
when  the  next  election  falls  due,  to  "turn  the 
rascals  out"  and  elect  more  promising  successors. 
But  then  that  is  what  the  voters  have  been  doing 
these  many  years,  and  county  government  has 
not  materially  improved! 

But  if  when  the  "good  man"  theory  has  been 
tested  to  the  limit  and  found  wanting,  nothing 
^  else  appears,  may  it  not  be  suggested  that  the 
system  has  much  to  do  with  the  man  first  in  his 
selection  and  then  in  the  influence  that  determines 
his  conduct?  The  officers  in  the  counties  cited 
were  creatures  of  the  flesh.     They  found  them- 


COUNTY  GOVERNMENTS  AT  WORK  79 

selves  involved  in  an  organization  which  not  only 
gave  them  little  or  no  moral  support,  but  which 
actually  surrounded  them  with  temptation  to 
loaf,  to  commit  errors  and  to  steal.  They  were 
under  no  discipline  to  obey  the  law  or  to  treat  the 
interests  of  the  county  with  any  due  consideration. 
In  the  realm  of  government,  as  in  the  depart- 
ment of  horticulture,  it  would  appear  that  figs 
are  not  gathered  from  thistles. 


CHAPTER  IX 

THE  HUMANITARIAN   SIDE 

But  the  delinquencies  of  the  county  are  not 
wholly  related  in  terms  of  finance.  Some  good 
friend  of  the  system  is  sure  to  come  forward  with 
the  remark  that  "county  policies,  like  every  other 
branch  of  the  business,  may  be  expensive,  but  it 
has  a  good  deal  of  wholesome  humanity  about  it.'* 

A  view  that  is  worth  examining! 

To  the  lot  of  the  county,  acting  through  the 
machinery  and  under  the  influences  which  have 
been  described,  has  fallen  in  large  part,  the  ex- 
tensive and  important  governmental  burden  of 
looking  after  the  poor  who  are  always  with  us, 
the  sick  in  mind  and  those  in  prison.  The  magni- 
tude of  this  task  in  a  populous  center  may  be 
gathered  from  this  summary  of  the  humanita- 
rian functions  of  Cook  County,  by  Dr.  Graham 
Taylor. 

"It   housed,  fed  and   cared  for  about   eleven 

thousand  prisoners  in  the  county  jail,  nearly  ten 

thousand   of  whom  required  medical  treatment 

for  infectious  diseases. 

"It   gathered   in,    temporarily   cared   for   and 

80 


THE  HUMANITARIAN  SIDE  8i 

committed  to  state  asylums  or  discharged,  2334 
insane  patients. 

"It  assumed  and  maintained  care  for  10,597 
delinquent  and  dependent  children. 

"It  isolated  and  stamped  out  contagion. 

"It  housed,  fed  and  furnished  medical  and 
surgical  treatment  for  34,000  sick  people,  1000 
tuberculosis  patients,  and  3000  aged,  infirm  or 
irresponsible  people. 

"It  supplied  food,  clothing  and  fuel  to  about 
200,000  persons ;  buried  978  pauper  and  friendless 
dead,  and  granted  $165,000  to  350  indigent  mothers 
for  the  support  of  1126  children.  To  perform 
this  service  it  required  the  full  time  of  3000  em- 
ployees and  part  time  of  about  10,000  others. 
The  appropriations  of  Cook  County  for  19 13 
total  $7,072,486.96." 

Such  is  the  budget  of  what  we  may  call  the 
human  problem  of  a  great  metropolitan  county. 
Between  the  services  rendered  in  such  a  unit  and 
those  of  a  sparsely  settled,  back-country  county, 
almost  anywhere  in  the  United  States,  the  differ- 
ence is  one  of  degree  rather  than  of  kind. 

This  is  the  ancient  heritage  of  the  church,  which 
it  has  gradually  transferred  to  the  shoulders  of 
the  State,  beginning  at  a  time  when  the  treatment 
of  unfortunates  was  yet  mostly  a  matter  of  get- 
ting undesirable  citizens  out  of  the  way  without 
actually  assassinating  them.  The  recipients  of 
relief  in  early  times  were  all  treated  as  just  so 
much  of  a  pubHc  charge  and  all  were  obliged  to 

6 


82  THE  COUNTY 

wear  the  letter  "P."  There  was  no  science  of 
penology,  and  the  insane  were  treated  as  possessed 
of  devils.  Modern  institutional  care  was  practi- 
cally undreamed  of. 

But  the  care  of  unfortunates  within  the  last 
half  century  has  come  under  the  dominion  of  the 
scientific  spirit.  The  old  way  was  to  "bunch*'  all 
kinds  of  poor  and  all  kinds  of  dependents  and  all 
classes  of  criminals,  regardless  of  all  antecedent  cir- 
cumstances and  all  hope  of  betterment.  Science, 
on  the  other  hand,  has  demanded  first,  investiga- 
tion into  the  causes  and  nature  of  crime  and  de- 
ficiency, then  classification  of  cases.  New  York 
led  the  way  in  the  treatment  of  these  social  relief 
problems  by  starting  the  process  of  segregation. 
In  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth  century  the 
almshouses  in  America  and  the  workhouse  in 
England  began  to  be  built,  as  an  expedient  for 
facilitating  investigation  of  applicants  and  de- 
creasing expense.  These  institutions  were  soon 
used  to  house  all  sorts  and  conditions  of  men, 
women  and  children.     Says  one  authority^: 

"  If  you  went  into  an  almshouse  in  any  of  the 
counties  of  this  State  as  recently  as  the  '70s 
of  the  last  century,  you  would  have  found  a 
mixture  of  the  aged,  who  were  in  the  almshouse 
simply  because  they  were  old  and  misfortune 
had  come  to  them  and  they  had  lost  their 
money   and   were   therefore   obliged   to   spend 

*  Bailey  B.  Burritt,  in  Proceedings  of  the  Second  Conference  for 
the  Study  and  Reform  of  County  Government,  pp.  6,  7. 


THE  HUMANITARIAN  SIDE  S3 

their  last  days  in  the  almshouse.  In  addition, 
you  would  find  children  of  all  ages,  beginning 
with  infants.  A  large  number  of  infants,  espe- 
cially illegitimate  children,  would  be  housed  in 
the  same  building  and  would  be  cared  for  pro- 
miscuously with  the  older  groups.  You  would 
also  find  large  numbers  of  the  insane,  as  there 
was  no  separate  provision  for  them  at  that 
time.  So  with  the  epileptic  and  feeble-minded 
and  every  class  of  dependent  vagrant  and 
inebriate.  It  was  a  veritable  dumping-ground 
for  all  sorts  and  conditions  of  humanity." 

In  the  movement  for  segregation  of  cases  the 
first  step  was  to  secure  a  prohibition  against  the 
commitment  of  children  to  the  almshouses.  Spe- 
cial provision  was  later  made  for  the  insane. 
From  time  to  time  other  classes  of  cases,  including 
the  feeble-minded,  the  epileptics  and  vagrants, 
have  been  transferred  for  appropriate  treatment 
elsewhere.  Later  came  the  public  health  move- 
ment, the  basic  idea  of  which  is  the  segregation 
of  the  sick  poor  from  those  who  are  sound  in  body 
but  destitute.  Even  at  the  present  time  the 
almshouses  are  used  for  inebriates. 

In  a  later  period  the  standards  for  the  treat- 
ment of  prisoners  have  been  advanced  somewhat 
more  slowly  but  along  the  same  scientific  principle 
of  classification  and  segregation,  but  less  with 
reference  to  psychological  and  sociological  causes 
or  the  nature  of  crime  than  to  the  conveniences  of 
administration.  But  segregation  has  been  pre- 
scribed by  law  in  generous  measure  according  to 


84  THE  COUNTY 

certain  crude  principles  of  decency  and  justice. 
Thus  the  New  York  Prison  law  provides  at  least 
ten  classifications,  involving  separation  of  men 
from  women,  men  from  boys,  persons  awaiting 
trial  from  those  under  sentence,  civil  prisoners 
and  witnesses  from  criminal  prisoners. 

So  much  for  the  modern  standards.  Against 
such  standards  the  success  or  failure  of  the  county 
as  a  humanitarian  agency  must  be  measured. 

THE   POOR 

First  as  to  the  poor. 

We  can  do  no  better  than  to  recount  the  per- 
formances of  certain  typical  states.  Certainly  in 
New  York  the  substantial  improvement  of  this 
class  has  come  through  no  strong  impulse  within 
the  county  itself,  but  rather  as  the  result  of  the 
activities  of  unusually  strong  volunteer  organiza- 
tions which  forced  the  fact  of  the  evil  conditions 
upon  the  attention  of  the  officers  and  the  people 
of  the  county  and  upon  the  state  in  general.  But 
lest  it  should  be  supposed  that  New  York  State 
is  a  model  in  this  field,  let  it  be  recorded  that  when 
by  more  or  less  of  an  accident  Mr.  V.  Everit 
Macy,  a  real  friend  of  scientific  charity,  was  elected 
to  the  office  of  superintendent  of  the  poor,  he 
found  a  system  more  ideally  fitted  to  take  care  of 
"the  boys"  in  the  "organization"  than  the  poor 
themselves.     In  describing  the  system  he  said : 

"The  law  ingeniously  divides  responsibility  so 


THE  HUMANITARIAN  SIDE  85 

that  the  superintendent  has  no  power  over  the 
admissions  to  the  almshouse  or  hospitals  or  of 
children  to  institutions  but  only  the  negative 
power  of  discharge,  while  the  local  committing  -^JL. 
officials  have  little  control  after  the  adult  or  child 
is  committed.  This  often  results  in  setting  up 
an  endless  chain  of  commitments  and  discharges, 
for,  as  fast  as  the  superintendent  discharges  an 
adult  or  a  child,  the  local  official  may  recommit. 

"The  superintendent  is  on  a  salary  but  practi- 
cally all  the  overseers  are  paid  on  a  per  diem  basis, 
and  the  justices  of  the  peace  are  paid  a  fee  for 
each  commitment.  If  an  Overseer  issues  an  order 
for  groceries  or  signs  a  commitment,  he  can  collect 
his  two  dollars  for  a  day's  work. 

"Could  ingenuity  devise  a  more  absurd  and 
wasteful  method  of  relieving  suffering  or  one  where 
responsibility  and  control  could  be  more  dis- 
astrously divided  to  the  injury  of  the  taxpayer  and 
the  poor?"^ 

The  same  authority  is  responsible  for  the  state- 
ment that  "the  greatest  injustice  to  the  individual 
and  injury  to  the  state  is  now  done  through  the 
haphazard  handling  of  the  cases  of  delinquent  y 
and  destitute  children."  Overseers  of  the  poor, 
justices  of  the  peace,  police  magistrates  and  judges 
can  all  commit  children  and  most  of  these  officials 
have  a  monetary  interest  in  committing.  Few  of 
them  have  any  means  of  investigating  cases  before 
acting  and  fewer  still  have  any  training  to  fit 

'  First  Conference  for  Better  County  Government,  p.  22. 


86  THE  COUNTY 

them  to  deal  wisely  with  either  the  destitute  or 
delinquent  child. 

But  what  of  other  states? 

In  Missouri  where  poor  relief  is  a  function  of 
the  county  court,  a  county  almshouse  is  main- 
tained and  a  certain  amount  of  outdoor  relief  is 
dispensed.  Professor  Isador  Loeb'  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Missouri  reports: 

"While  the  county  board  is  authorized  to 
maintain  a  county  hospital  for  the  sick  poor, 
this  has  been  done  in  only  one  county.  Nine 
counties  still  use  the  primitive  system  of  send- 
ing the  poor  to  board  with  private  families. 
Most  of  the  counties  in  abandoning  this  system 
have  bought  a  farm  and  employed  a  superin- 
tendent to  look  after  the  poor  and  use  them  as 
far  as  possible  on  the  farm.  As  a  result  the 
almshouse  in  the  majority  of  the  counties  is  a 
farmhouse,  and  the  county  is  apparently  more 
interested  in  the  successful  management  of  the 
farm  than  the  welfare  of  the  inmates.  While 
a  number  of  counties  have  erected  modern 
buildings,  the  physical  conditions  in  most  of 
the  almshouses  are  very  bad." 

With  respect  to  Pennsylvania,  the  special  agent 
of  the  department  of  public  health  and  charities 
writes^: 

"Twenty-seven  counties  have  now  accepted 
the  Children's  Aid  Society  as  their  agent  for 
the  care  of  dependent  children.     In  the  other 

^Annals   of  the   American   Academy  oj  Political  and  Social 
Science,  May,  1913,  p.  56. 
*  Op.  cit.,  p.  168. 


THE  HUMANITARIAN  SIDE  87 

counties  nearly  every  possible  method  of  caring 
for  children  is  represented  in  the  courses  chosen. 
Where  the  township  system  is  in  use,  the  few 
dependent  children  are  placed  out  by  adoption 
or  indenture,  by  the  overseers  themselves. 
Several  counties  have  built  homes  for  the  chil- 
dren, an  expensive  method,  with  no  merit  so 
far  as  the  favorable  situation  of  the  children  is 
concerned.  Some  of  the  overseers  place  the 
children  in  institutions,  while  others  use  private 
homes  to  some  extent,  controlling  and  supervis- 
ing the  children  themselves." 

THE  INSANE 

In  no  branch  of  humanitarian  service  is  segre- 
gation, classification,  even  to  the  point  of  indi- 
vidual treatment,  more  essential  than  in  the  care 
of  the  insane.  New  Jersey  puts  no  inconsiderable 
number  of  her  mentally  afflicted  on  a  par  with 
offenders  against  the  criminal  law  for,  according 
to  the  Commission  on  the  Care  of  the  Mental 
Defectives  for  the  year  1913,  fifteen  counties  had 
confined  insane  persons  in  penal  institutions,  in 
some  cases  for  periods  of  from  85  to  223  days. 
The  State  Charity  Commission  in  Illinois  recently 
reported  that  in  spite  of  a  provision  of  the  statutes 
forbidding  such  practices,  only  eleven  of  the  102 
counties  did  not  so  offend.  Louisiana  is  reported 
to  have  many  lunatics  in  its  parish  jails. 

In  but  few  states  are  there  no  insane  in  the    K 
county  almshouses,  for  at  least  temporary  con- 
finement, and  particularly  is  this  true  in  the  South 


88  THE  COUNTY 

and  Middle  West.  In  such  institutions  a  condition 
sometimes  prevails  that  staggers  imagination.  For 
the  state  of  Pennsylvania,  Dr.  C.  Floyd  Haviland 
has  summed  up  the  situation  in  these  words: 

"As  a  result  of  the  existing  system,  in  these 
institutions,  custodial  care  is  generally  substi- 
tuted for  active  remedial  treatment  directed 
to  the  improvement  or  the  recovery  of  the  in- 
sane as  such.  As  a  rule,  medical  treatment  for 
physical  ills  is  satisfactory,  although  such  is 
not  invariably  the  case.  With  but  few  excep- 
tions, the  county  institutions  have  no  special 
medical  facilities,  nor  can  it  be  expected  that 
such  facilities  can  be  provided  under  present 
conditions,  for,  with  the  comparatively  small 
number  of  patients  treated  in  the  respective  insti- 
tutions, such  provisions  would  require  a  prohibi- 
tive per  capita  expense;  but  as  a  result  of  such 
lack  of  facilities,  mechanical  means  of  restraint 
and  confinement  are  substituted  for  proper 
personal  treatment  and  attention.  With  but 
a  limited  number  of  attendants,  enclosed  exer- 
cise yards  and  personal  restraint  and  seclusion 
must  inevitably  result.  Under  existing  condi- 
tions, one  cannot  blame  the  caretakers  of  the 
insane  for  resorting  to  such  means,  for  while 
restraint  and  seclusion  can  and  should  be  abol- 
ished, they  cannot  be  successfully  abolished 
without  the  substitution  of  other  means  of 
dealing  with  the  disturbed  insane,  such  as 
hydrotherapy,  occupational  training,  and  close 
personal  supervision.  In  this  connection  it 
is  agreeable  to  note  that  little  evidence  was 
obtained  of  actual  physical  abuse,  but  that  gross 
neglect  exists  is  indisputable. 


THE  HUMANITARIAN  SIDE  89 

*'That  the  theory  of  county  hospitals  for 
the  chronic  insane  only  does  not  obtain  in 
actual  practice  is  but  a  necessary  result  of  the 
prevailing  custom  of  determining  the  question 
as  to  whether  a  patient  shall  be  committed  to 
a  state  hospital,  regardless  of  prognosis  or 
medical  issues,  in  many  instances  the  decision 
being  made  b}^  local  lay  authorities  without 
medical  advice.  It  is  certain  that  many  acute 
cases  have  lapsed  into  chronicity  in  the  county 
hospitals  simply  for  lack  of  proper  treatment. 
Dreary,  desolate  wards,  lack  of  recreation,  or 
other  means  of  exciting  or  maintaining  active 
interest  are  alone  sufficient  not  only  to  hinder 
improvement  or  recovery,  but  must  necessarily 
result  in  actually  hastening  the  terminal  process 
of  deterioration."^ 

Writing  concerning  the  treatment  of  the  insane 
in  Texas,  Dr.  Thomas  W.  Salmon,  of  the  National 
Committee  for  Mental  Hygiene  calls  county  alms- 
house care  of  the  insane  the  "saddest  and  most 
sordid  spectacle  in  American  community  life." 
For  a  graphic  picture  of  the  practical  significance 
of  the  system  in  one  of  the  almshouses  in  that  state 
the  reader  is  urged  to  read  the  extracts  from  Dr. 
Salmon's  address  in  the  Appendix  of  this  volume. 

COUNTY  PRISONS 

But  what  of  the  treatment  of  the  prisoner? 
The  county  theoretically  has  very  little  to  do 

^  The  Treatment  and  Care  oj  the  Insane  in  Pennsylvania,  pp. 
68-69.     Philadelphia,   19 15. 


90  THE  COUNTY 

with  persons  convicted  of  serious  offenses.  By 
far  the  greater  number  of  the  inmates  of  the 
prison  are  persons  awaiting  trial  and  therefore 
presumably  innocent  of  wrongdoing.  The  mini- 
mum standard  of  justice  demands  that  such 
persons  be  kept  apart  from  hardened  criminals. 
We  shall  see  how  this  and  other  standards  are 
observed  in  the  county. 

To  begin  with,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  head 
of  the  jail,  universally,  is  the  sheriff.  Bear  in 
mind  that  this  officer  in  forty-seven  states  is 
elective,  that  his  term  is  usually  very  short,  that 
he  is  usually  ineligible  to  succeed  himself  and  that 
he  has  numerous  special  duties  to  perform.  It  is 
therefore  obvious  that  nothing  but  an  exceptional 
piece  of  good  luck  can  bring  to  the  head  of  the 
jail  an  expert  penologist.  Often,  too,  he  will  be 
under  contract  with  the  board  of  supervisors  to 
supply  the  prisoners  with  food  at  as  good  a  profit 
to  himself  as  may  be. 

In  this  atmosphere  it  is  certainly  not  to  be 
expected  that  the  finest  flowers  of  penology  should 
grow.  Massachusetts  has  so  far  fallen  below 
standard  as  to  call  forth  this  stinging  description 
from  the  Massachusetts  Prison  Association: 

"  In  fact,  in  the  county  prisons  nothing  is  done 
but  to  give  the  inmates  custodial  care.  The 
man  who  goes  to  the  reformatory  is  dealt  with 
with  a  definite  purpose  to  reform  him.  Another 
man  goes  to  a  county  prison  and  comes  out 
unchanged. 


THE  HUMANITARIAN  SIDE  91 

**Even  worse  is  the  indiscriminate  associa- 
tion of  all  sorts  of  criminals  in  the  county 
prisons.  Beginners  in  crime  are  forced  into 
close  contact  with  hardened  criminals.  Men  Sv 
who  are  committed  for  being  too  poor  to  pay 
their  fines  for  petty  offenses,  are  compelled  to 
associate  with  men  who  have  spent  their  lives 
in  crime.  The  county  prison  is,  inevitably 
a  school  of  crime."  ^ 

The  Prison  Association  in  New  York  State  is 
scarcely  more  complimentary  concerning  the 
prison  conditions  in  that  state.  According  to  Mr. 
O.  F.  Lewis,  ^  its  secretary,  the  requirements  of  the 
statutes  respecting  the  classification  of  prisoners 
appear  to  be  systematically  violated.  Jails  are 
frightfully  overcrowded.  The  buildings  are  fault- 
ily constructed  and  unsanitary.  For  a  prisoner  to 
make  a  six-months'  stay  in  one  of  them  is  to  un- 
dergo ''the  most  serious  possible  contamination." 

The  condition  of  the  jails  in  Illinois  is  ap- 
parently no  better,  for  the  State  Charities  Com- 
mission reported  recently,^  there  had  been  little 
improvement  since  the  first  examination  of  the 
former  State  Charities  Board  in  1870.  A  large 
majority  of  the  jails  were  reported  to  be  old  and 
unsanitary.  In  seventy-two  of  one  hundred  and 
two  counties,  the  law  requiring  the  segregation 

*  Leaflet.     191 1. 

*  Proceedings  oj  the  Third  Conference  for  the  Study  and  Reform 
of  County  Government,  pp.  6-7. 

^Annals  of  the  American  Academy  of  Political  and  Social 
Science,  May,  191 3,  p.  70. 


92  THE  COUNTY 

of  minors  from  adults  was  violated  and  in  eleven 
counties  there  was  no  provision  for  women. 

And  so  it  goes.  The  county  as  a  truly  humani- 
tarian agency  has  most  lamentably  failed.  As 
to  the  underlying  cause  of  the  failure,  this  is  sug- 
gested in  a  remark  of  the  state  prison  inspector 
of  Alabama  in  his  report  for  19 14:  "Publicity  is 
not  only  a  political  antiseptic,  but  is  the  sure 
antidote  for  most,  if  not  all,  our  governmental 
ills."  A  justifiable  inference  from  this  declara- 
tion would  be  that  counties  are  suffering  from  the 
lack  of  publicity.  In  the  immunity  from  the 
restraint  which  such  a  purifying  influence  would 
supply  the  elementary  human  instincts  of  county 
officials  has  full  sway — such  instincts  as  the  in- 
spector had  in  mind  when  he  said : 

"The  vile,  pernicious,  perverting,  fee  system 
beggars  description,  and  my  vocabulary  is  in- 
adequate to  describe  its  deleterious  and  bane- 
ful effects.  It  inculcates  into  the  management 
of  our  jails  greed  for  the  Almighty  Dollar; 
persons  are  arrested  because  of  the  dollar  and 
shame  to  say,  are  frequently  kept  in  captivity 
for  months,  in  steel  cages,  for  no  other  reason 
than  the  Almighty  Dollar." 

The  organization  of  the  county  for  political 
purposes  to  secure  the  utmost  obscurity  and  ir- 
responsibility breaks  the  force  of  any  humani- 
tarian public  opinion  that  might  be  developed  for 
the  betterment  of  the  lot  of  the  unfortunate. 
The  same  influences  render  the  county  practically 


THE  HUMANITARIAN  SIDE  93 

uninhabitable  for  the  expert  administrator,  who 
would  be  likely  to  direct  popular  attention  to  the 
evil  conditions  which  we  have  described.  His 
place  has  been  preempted  by  the  hanger-on  and 
the  wire-puller  to  whom  charity  means  the  dis- 
pensing of  favors  to  "deserving"  workers  of  all 
political  faiths.  In  this  sense  the  county  is  a  very 
humane  institution,  and  a  very  open-handed  one. 
It  serves  well  such  local  officials  as  the  overseer 
of  the  poor  in  an  up-state  New  York  county  who 
presented  this  remarkable  annual  report  to  his 
superior : 

"I  am  a  little  late  with  my  report.  I  hope 
you  will  excuse  me  and  overlook  the  matter. 
Like  last  year,  there  are  no  county  poor  here; 
but  if  you  will  allow  me  $5.00  for  keeping  them 
^Si  yo^  will  oblige, 

Yours  respectfully, 


"  xours  resp 


This  claim  was  paid  and  the  poor  were  pre- 
sumably "kept  off"  indefinitely. 

There  is  not  a  little  evidence  to  support  the 
statement  that  many  county  officers  believe  that 
they  have  satisfied  the  requirements  of  humanity 
when  they  have  taken  care  of  their  own  personal 
wants.  Such  officers,  and  the  system  of  which 
they  are  part,  are  very  good — to  themselves. 


CHAPTER  X 

ROADS  AND  BRIDGES 

To  the  county  in  most  of  the  states  has  also 
been  committed  from  early  times,  the  obligation 
to  carry  forward  what  is  now  generally  recognized 
as  one  of  the  greatest  of  unifying,  nationalizing, 
civilizing  factors  in  this  or  any  time — ^highways. 
Through  these  avenues  of  communication  the 
people  of  the  wilderness  were  to  break  their 
solitude,  establish  common  understandings  and 
give  value  to  the  products  of  the  earth  by  creating 
markets  for  their  distribution.  Over  the  highways 
access  was  to  be  had  with  schools  and  churches. 

From  the  colonial  period  and  well  down  into  the 
nineteenth  century,  the  construction  and  main- 
tenance of  roads  was,  in  diminishing  degree,  a 
private  enterprise,  operated  by  turnpike  com- 
panies primarily  for  the  benefit  of  their  stock- 
holders rather  than  that  of  the  public.  Gradually 
road  making  came  to  be  regarded  as  a  public 
function,  at  first  in  respect  to  the  repairs  upon  the 
private  toll  roads  and  then  in  original  construction. 
In  the  year  1913  the  amount  which  counties  of  the 
country  spent  upon  their  highways  had  mounted 

to  $55»5i4.89i. 

94 


ROADS  AND  BRIDGES  95 

To  the  fulfillment  of  this  great  function  the 
county  brought  those  weaknesses  of  governmental 
organization,  that  lack  of  equipment,  that  defec- 
tive loyalty  to  the  service  of  the  whole  people 
which  have  been  described  heretofore.  The  erec- 
tion of  a  road  system  was  a  demand  for  broad, 
foreseeing  knowledge  and  appreciation  of  the 
needs  of  the  whole  county,  high  technical  skill  in 
the  art  of  road  making  and  adequate  financial 
arrangements.  The  county  supplied  none  of 
these. 

What  the  county  did  supply  and  how  it  sup- 
plied it  may  be  worth  the  recital,  even  though  in 
these  days  of  the  "good-roads"  movement  the 
state  government  is  constantly  stiffening  its  hold 
upon  highway  matters. 

To  begin  with,  the  whole  public  road  function 
is  rooted,  historically,  in  the  tradition  of  the 
people's  infinite  political  versatility  and  infalH- 
bility.  The  true  democrat  of  the  nineteenth 
century  never  doubted  his  ability  to  select  and 
control  the  human  agents  for  executing  a  technical 
and  difficult  engineering  problem,  which  has 
baffled  the  resources  of  rtiodern  specialists.  And 
so,  to  this  day,  the  management  of  road  construc- 
tion and  care  over  a  great  portion  of  the  country 
is  entrusted  to  a  farmer,  a  blacksmith,  a  plumber 
or  some  other  species  of  layman  who  has  sufficient 
popularity  with  his  neighbors  and  the  county 
chairman  to  get  himself  chosen  as  town  supervisor. 
In  some  states  the  rdle  of  road  manager  is  played 


96  THE  COUNTY 

by  the  somewhat  better  equipped  county  surveyor, 
who,  however,  like  the  supervisor,  is  picked  in 
the  majority  of  cases  because  of  his  vote-getting 
qualities  rather  than  for  any  technical  training. 

Under  these  circumstances  the  roadmaster  is  apt 
to  enter  upon  his  public  duties  with  a  sense  of  his 
obligation  not  to  the  whole  community  and  its 
ultimate  interest,  but  to  those  articulate  sections 
of  the  people  who  are  most  likely  to  make  them- 
selves felt  on  the  next  election  day.  As  a  certain 
highway  engineer  illustrated  the  situation :  "Here's 
$10,000  to  spend  on  roads.  Here  also  is  Jeff 
Browning  up  on  Nut  Creek,  who  wants  quite  a 
little  road  work  done.  Of  course,  Jeff  lives  fifteen 
miles  from  the  county  seat,  and  there's  fifteen 
miles  of  bad  roads  between  his  place  and  town, 
but  Jeff  voted  the  whole  settlement  for  me,  and  he 
has  some  idle  teams,  and  we'll  just  help  him  along 
by  spendmg  some  money  at  his  place."  It  is 
one  of  the  familiar  processes  of  practical  politics 
and  the  imagination  should  have  no  difficulty  in 
picturing  any  number  of  equally  accommodating 
transactions. 

Quite  as  serious  an  aspect  of  road  control 
directly  by  elective  officers  is  that  it  gives  too  great 
and  too  convenient  an  opportunity  for  layman 
advice  and  prejudice  to  bear  upon  a  technical 
problem.  One  curious  idea  which  is  prevalent 
in  rhiddle  western  rural  districts  is  that  a  road, 
in  order  to  be  a  road,  must  be  on  a  section  line, 
regardless  of  the  contour  of  the  land,  the  con- 


ROADS  AND  BRIDGES  97 

venience  of  users  of  the  highway  or  the  character 
of  the  soil.  The  engineer  above  quoted  tells  of  a 
very  bad  hill  about  two  miles  north  of  Poplar 
Bluff,  Mo.  "The  grade,"  says  Mr.  Edy,  "must 
have  been  something  like  twelve  per  cent,  in 
places.  It  was  estimated  that  by  going  around 
this  hill,  a  grade  of  six  per  cent,  could  be  obtained, 
increasing  the  distance  but  slightly,  and  traversing 
almost  worthless  ground.  The  owner,  however, 
would  neither  give  nor  sell  a  right  of  way,  holding 
that  unless  the  road  were  maintained  '  on  the  line  * 
it  would  not  be  a  real  road.  Something  like  $400 
was  spent  on  this  bill  in  an  effort  to  make  it  pass- 
able, when  half  that  amount  would  have  made  a 
permanent  road  in  a  new  location." 

Of  course,  when  the  organization  of  the  county 
gives  to  Jeff  Browning  and  the  philosopher  of 
Poplar  Bluff  the  predominating  influence  in  road 
affairs,  there  can  be  nothing  in  the  way  of  a  county 
road  policy  or  road  plan  that  is  based  upon  the 
economic  and  social  needs  of  the  whole  people. 
The  system  enthrones  petty  rural  sectionalism  and 
narrowness  and  condones  a  form  of  graft  which  is 
without  doubt  as  vicious  in  principle  as  the  stealing 
of  a  street  railway  franchise.  Where  the  township 
supervisor  is  the  responsible  official  the  case  is  at 
its  worst  for  it  means  just  so  many  more  execu- 
tive units  to  be  watched,  just  so  many  more 
standards  of  road  construction,  just  so  many 
more  independent  road  plans. 

The  "business"   end  of  county  road  adminis- 


98  THE  COUNTY 

tration  is  often  weighted  down  to  earth  with  the 
same  sublime  faith  in  the  wisdom  of  the  average 
citizen.  Rarely  have  counties  maintained  any- 
thing that  approximated  adequate  records  of 
cost  or  serviceability  of  their  roads  and  bridges  or 
data  upon  which  they  could  construct  a  satis- 
factory policy  of  construction,  if  indeed  their 
governing  bodies  have  dreamed  of  the  need  or  the 
value  of  such  aids.  Even  of  so  highly  developed  a 
community  as  Monroe  County,  New  York,  in 
which  the  City  of  Rochester  is  situated,  it  could  be 
said  concerning  the  office  of  highway  superintend- 
ent that  "the  only  record  now  kept  is  a  bill  book 
in  which  are  entered  all  claims  against  the  county 
highway  fund  which  are  paid  through  the  super- 
intendent's office,  all  payrolls  and  all  claims  for 
personal  service."' 

Much  the  same  lack  of  appreciation  for  facts  was 
revealed  in  a  cruder  way  in  a  grand  jury  investiga- 
tion during  19 12  of  the  methods  of  the  Board  of 
Commissioners  in  Darke  County,  Ohio,  where  it 
was  discovered  that  minutes  were  rarely  read 
and  contracts  were  voted  twenty  at  a  time  and 
sometimes  without  the  formality  of  a  vote,  in 
direct  violation  of  the  law. 

From  another  middle  western  state  comes  an 
illuminating  description  of  the  method  of  awarding 
bids  on  bridge  construction:  "Each  competitor 
submitted  his  own  drawings  and  an  estimate  to  a 

*  From  an  unpublished  report  of  the  Rochester  Bureau  of 
Municipal  Research,  1915. 


ROADS  AND  BRIDGES  99 

board  of  commissioners,  not  one  of  whom  had  the 
least  technical  knowledge  or  practical  experience, 
but  was  'led  away*  generally  hy  the  size  oj  the 
drawing  and  the  accompanying  estimate. 

''The  result  was  shoddy  work,  insufficient  piers 
or  abutments,  piles  not  driven  down  to  any  safe 
and  permanent  depth  and  finally  a  bridge  that 
was  built  for  appearance,  not  durability  nor  per- 
manency. Just  as  soon  as  we  had  a  flood  bring- 
ing down  logs,  stumps  and  trees,  some  of  these 
would  strike  or  swing  against  the  piers  and  down 
came  the  structure,  floating  away  or  lodging 
in  the  stream,  causing  a  jamb  to  accumulate, 
holding  up  the  stream  and  overflowing  land  for 
miles. 

"It  took  many  years  to  get  a  system  where  an 
engineer  designed  a  bridge  with  details  of  construc- 
tion, steel  or  iron  cylinders  filled  with  concrete  as 
piers,  and  a  superintendent  of  construction  who 
knew  his  business  to  take  charge  of  the  work. 

"Thus  we  spent  thousands  of  dollars  for  bridges 
to  be  erected  simply  to  see  them  carried  out;  in 
one  instance  twice.  But  the  cost  and  failure 
combined  in  time  brought  forth  such  protests  that 
such  a  system  would  not  be  tolerated  longer; 
but  the  waste  was  done  and  the  money  practically 
thrown  away. 

"In  county  road  repair  and  construction  we  were 
no  better.  The  district  boss  was  elected  politically, 
and  of  course  he  rewarded  his  commissioner  friends 
by  working  the  road  fund.      He  dared  not  com- 


100  THE  COUNTY 

plain  of  short  hours  or  little  done  or  sitting  by  the 
road  discussing  how  to  'fix  the  election,'  and  usu- 
ally the  work  was  done  just  before  the  nomination 
and  election.  The  '  dump  of  dirt '  was  left  in  a  pile, 
not  even  leveled ;  every  team  avoided  it  if  possible, 
and  when  winter  then  came  it  was  'slurry'  and 
mud.  No  ditches  or  outlets  for  same  were  made 
or  cleaned  out,  and  if  any  suggestion  was  made 
for  improvement,  you  were  told  'it  was  good 
enough  before  you  came  and  you  can  get  out  if 
you  don't  want  to  stay."* 

In  Polk  County,  Iowa,  an  investigation  in 
1 912  disclosed  the  fact  that  the  board  of  super- 
visors had  paid  out  $100,000  for  contracts  without 
asking  for  bids.  They  never  required  plans  or 
specifications  of  any  bridge  to  be  constructed. 
Bridges  had  been  ordered  without  any  idea  of  what 
they  would  cost.  No  guarantee  bond  was  required 
and  bridges  were  accepted  without  inspection. 
Certain  companies  had  been  favored  to  the  exclu- 
sion of  others  and  the  result  was  that  in  many 
counties  bridges  were  built  at  a  cost  fifty  per  cent, 
higher  than  their  reasonable  value. 

To  the  rich  opportunities  for  "turning  an  honest 
dollar"  which  lurked  in  such  systems  and  in  such 
an  attitude  on  the  part  of  the  public  officers,  the 
"powers  that  prey"  have  been  keenly  alive. 
The  tale  that  was  told  a  few  years  ago,  with  a 
multitude  of  specifications,  by  a  few  enterprising 
farm  journals  in  the  Middle  West,  rivals,  except 
in  dramatic  quality  and  the  size  of  the  sums  in- 


ROADS  AND  BRIDGES  loi 

volved,  the  characteristic  falls  from  grace  which 
have  been  heretofore  associated  with  ward  alder- 
men and  legislators  hailing  from  wicked  urban 
districts.  It  was  a  serious  indictment  of  county 
officialdom  which  is  contained  in  a  letter  of  the 
chairman  of  the  Roads  and  Highways  Committee 
of  the  lower  house  in  Kansas,  who  wrote  in 
1913: 

"I  know  there  are  comparatively  few  county 
commissioners  who  profit  personally  by  the  man- 
ipulations of  the  bridge  companies  but  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  companies  are  shrewd  men  who 
understand  thoroughly  that  the  average  county 
commissioner  is  very  jealous  of  his  bridge  pat- 
ronage, and  brooks  no  interference  with  his  hand- 
ling of  the  bridge  business  with  a  free  hand. 
Consequently  the  bridge  men  play  this  feature 
to  the  limit  and  to  their  own  profit."' 

That  Iowa  was  inoculated  with  the  same  germ 
is  suggested  by  remarks  of  Alson  Secor,  the  editor 
of  Successful  Farming: 

"The  bridge  men  are  not  depending  upon  a 
lobby  at  Des  Moines,  or  any  state  capitol,  to  put 
through  what  they  want,  or  to  prevent  legis- 
lation that  will  make  bridge  letting  competitive. 
They  work  to  elect  or  defeat  supervisors.  They 
finance  state  supervisors'  annual  meetings  and  give 
the  watchdogs  of  the  public  treasury  that  contains 
your  tax  money  such  a  good  time  that  the  '  boys  * 

^Successful  Farmiyigy  June,  19 13. 


102  THE  COUNTY 

fall  under  lasting  obligations  to  the  bridge  com- 
panies. 

"Bribe  the  lawmakers?  Oh,  no!  You  can't 
say  that.  It  isn't  a  bribe  to  hand  a  man  a  line 
of  soft  talk,  is  it?  It  isn't  a  bribe  to  give  a 
county  official  a  hilarious  good  time  at  a  summer 
resort,  is  it?  Or  to  pay  his  hotel  bills  when  he 
attends  the  state  meetings?  No — a  thousand 
times  no — legally. 

"But  the  bridge  men  get  there  just  the  same. 
They  have  for  years  prevented  any  legislation 
that  would  give  them  a  dollar's  worth  of  bridge 
work  for  a  dollar's  worth  of  taxes." 

So  well  satisfied  were  the  favored  bridge  builders 
with  the  status  quo  in  Nebraska  in  191 3  that  they 
are  said  to  have  maintained  at  the  state  legislature 
a  powerful  lobby  to  oppose  by  corrupt  methods 
a  bill  whose  one  purpose  was  to  require  bidders 
to  furnish  estimates  on  uniform  blanks.  The 
information  thus  obtained  would  have  been  placed 
on  file  at  the  state  capitol  and  made  available 
to  all  who  might  wish  to  compare  the  cost  of  con- 
struction in  different  counties — light  would  have 
been  let  into  the  operations  of  the  counties  in 
bridge-building  matters. 

It  would  seem,  then,  that  the  system  did  have 
much  to  do  with  waste  of  pubHc  funds  and  in- 
efficiency of  every  sort  and  was  the  basis  of  a 
certain  amount  of  corruption,  in  all  the  states  men- 
tioned. It  was  not  all  simply  a  matter  of  "good'* 
men  and  "bad"  men.     But  the  breakdown  of  the 


ROADS  AND  BRIDGES  103 

county  in  highway  affairs  is  fast  becoming  ancient 
history,  not  directly,  through  a  process  of  re- 
generation, but  through  forces  playing  upon  the 
county  from  without  which  we  will  again  identify 
for  the  present  simply  as  the  "good-roads"  move- 
ment, of  which  more  hereafter. 


CHAPTER  XI 

NULLIFICATION 

Every  now  and  then  we  shall  have  to  remind 
ourselves  that  the  county  made  the  politician, 
rather  than  the  other  way  round. 

And  the  county  in  its  turn,  is  pretty  well  rooted 
in  the  good  graces  of  human  nature.  When 
American  counties  had  been  formed  and  their 
legal  status  as  subordinates  of  the  state  had  been 
established,  the  people  throughout  the  length 
and  breadth  of  each  of  the  states  were  pretty 
much  of  one  mind  in  the  fundamental  standards 
of  personal  conduct.  A  tradition  of  strict  morality 
dominated  New  England.  Its  dominion  was  not 
seriously  questioned.  The  South  and  the  middle 
states  may  not  have  been  so  strict  but  they  were 
homogeneous  in  their  own  brand  of  morality. 

Then  in  due  time  two  movements  took  place 
in  the  northern  states.  Just  as  the  constitution 
follows  the  flag  so  the  Puritan  morality  (more 
or  less  modulated  and  diluted)  trailed  the  west- 
ward drift  of  New  England  population,  first  into 
New  York,  then  into  the  Western  Reserve  and 

finally   into   the    Middle   West    and    Northwest. 

104 


NULLIFICATION  105 

But  another  force  contended  for  mastery  with 
the  New  England  influence.  The  growth  of  the 
cities  and  particularly  of  the  factory  centers  was 
simultaneous  with  the  great  waves  of  immigra- 
tion from  central  and  southern  Europe.  With 
the  new  immigration  came  a  conflicting  standard 
of  morality.  The  German  and  southern  Euro- 
pean immigrants  particularly,  brought  with  them 
liberal  ideas  of  Sabbath  observance.  They  also 
loved  their  beer  and  red  wine.  In  time  they  upset 
the  moral  balance  of  the  cities,  coming  into  sharp 
collision  with  the  New  England  (we  might  also 
say,  American)  conception  of  the  Sabbath  and 
with  the  total  abstinence  idea  which  began  to  get 
a  firm  foothold  in  the  nineteenth  century.  This 
complex  influence  gave  us  the  setting  for  at  least 
one  phase  of  that  never-ending  feud  that  rages 
between  New  York  City  and  ''up-state."  It 
pitted  Chicago  against  rural  Illinois.  It  made 
Cincinnati  a  more  or  less  alien  city  in  Ohio.  It 
gave  us  a  permanent  body  of  citizens  who  resent 
having  their  conduct  dictated  (as  they  apparently 
view  it)  from  above.  Preponderantly  foreign  in 
their  origin,  they  are  loud  in  their  proclamation 
of  their  rights  as  American  citizens,  while  the 
New  England  element,  still  most  influential  on 
the  whole  in  the  rural  districts,  is  properly  horri- 
fied at  the  low  estate  of  virtue  in  the  cities. 

It  was  inevitable  that  this  clash  of  interests 
should  be  reflected  in  politics.  Our  curiously 
illogical  state  system  lent  itself  most  obligingly^ 


io6  THE  COUNTY 

if  albeit  rather  ludicrously,  to  a  compromise;  the 
New  England  conscience  should  get  the  necessary 
laws  and  the  "foreign  element,"  where  its  political 
force  predominated,  should  control  their  enforce- 
ment! The  state  of  Illinois  has  carried  on  its 
statute  books  a  law  requiring  the  closing  of 
saloons  on  Sundays,  which  applies  uniformly 
throughout  the  state.  Never  till  recently  was  a 
serious  attempt  made  to  enforce  it  in  the  city  of 
Chicago,  which  was  quite  in  accordance  with 
the  modus  vivendi.  Then,  in  1915,  a  new  mayor 
took  it  into  his  head  to  close  the  saloons  up  tight. 
On  a  bright  Sunday  afternoon  the  populace, 
thirsty  and  indignant,  turned  out  and  demanded 
their  American  rights.  The  mayor's  attitude 
came  from  reading  the  law  literally  but  without 
a  due  regard  to  the  great  body  of  voters  who  are 
*'for  the  law  but  'agin'  its  enforcement." 

The  state  system  regularly  provides  against 
such  mistakes  of  official  judgment  by  carefully 
divorcing  the  duty  to  enforce  from  the  incentive 
to  enforce.  The  New  York  laws  forbid  the  placing 
of  wagers  on  horse  races.  They  stand  there  pre- 
sumably as  a  monument  to  the  enlightened  con- 
science of  a  majority  of  the  people.  They  were 
not  enacted  as  an  expression  of  moral  sentimen- 
tality to  be  ignored  at  will,  but  as  an  instruction 
for  the  governor,  the  administrative  establishment 
of  the  state  and  the  courts  to  carry  out.  The 
statute  is  of  course  obeyed  in  all  counties  where 
there  are  no  race  tracks  and  no  facilities  for  placing 


NULLIFICATION  107 

bets!  But  in  the  other  counties?  The  legislature 
has  provided  no  means  of  execution  other  than 
the  locally  controlled  peace  officers,  the  sheriffs 
and  the  constables.  These  are  the  servants  of  the 
state,  to  be  sure,  and  they  are  sworn  to  protect 
its  laws.  But  in  a  more  direct  human  way  they 
are  of  the  county,  bound  to  the  local  hotel  keepers, 
the  local  retail  merchants  and  the  jitney  bus 
owners  whose  business  thrives  on  the  patronage 
of  the  race-track  crowd.  Local  public  opinion 
in  the  race-track  district  flouts  the  will  of  the 
people  of  the  state  and  it  says  to  the  state,  as 
President  Jackson  said  to  the  Supreme  Court, 
"You  have  made  your  decision;  now  enforce  it." 

Only  occasionally  does  moral  sentiment  run 
strong  enough  to  force  the  governor  to  be  in  fact 
as  well  as  in  theory  the  real  head  of  the  state  in 
the  sense  that  he  employs  state  instruments  to 
enforce  state  desires.  Such  an  incident  occurred 
a  few  years  ago  when  the  governor  of  Indiana 
was  compelled  to  order  out  the  militia  to  enforce 
a  law  against  race- track  gambling  because  he  had 
no  power  to  compel  the  elective  sheriff  or  other 
local  officers  to  do  their  duty. 

In  practical  politics  this  clash  of  moral  standards 
produces  not  only  the  anomalous  situation  re- 
ferred to  but  often  the  strictly  administrative 
matter  of  law  enforcement  is  consciously  and 
designedly  a  political  issue.  The  popular  desire 
to  graduate  or  temper  the  enforcement  of  the 
law  is  doubtless  the  real  secret  of  interest  which 


io8  THE  COUNTY 

so  often  centers  in  the  election  of  a  district  at- 
torney. Shall  we  have  a  ''liberal"  administra- 
tion or  shall  we  "clap  on  the  lid,"  that  is  about 
the  form  the  question  takes — euphony  for:  "Shall 
the  prosecutor  shut  his  eyes  and  ignore  the  law, 
or  shall  he  obey  it  according  to  his  official  oath?" 
The  liberal  candidate  goes  before  the  people  with 
promises  to  go  easy  and  the  strict  morality  candi- 
date to  make  the  way  of  the  transgressor  hard. 

Which  is  right?  For  the  present  it  matters 
little.  It  remains  simply  to  point  out  that  since 
the  organization  of  the  state  and  county  provides 
no  organ  of  expression  for  local  policy,  the  people 
in  their  infinite  capacity  to  adapt  themselves  to  a 
hard  condition  proceed  to  make  a  policy-determin- 
ing body  out  of  a  strictly  administrative  officer, 
like  the  district  attorney  or  the  sheriff. 

Nullification  shows  itself  also  in  the  administra- 
tion of  the  tax  law.  Most  of  the  states  derive  a 
portion  of  their  revenues  from  the  general  pro- 
perty tax.  But  the  power  of  taxation  lies  in  the 
legislature  and  no  state  has  its  own  local  agents 
directly  and  fully  responsible  to  a  central  author- 
ity for  fixing  the  valuations  upon  which  the  levy 
is  based.  The  county  (except  where  state  reve- 
nues are  derived  from  distinct  sources)  is  required 
to  contribute  its  proportionate  share  to  the  central 
treasury  and  is  left  to  do  the  right  thing  by  the 
state,  with  such  supervision  as  will  be  hereafter 
noted.  The  people  of  the  county  are  allowed  tc 
select  their  own  assessors,  on  the  theory  that 


NULLIFICATION  109 

man  on  the  ground  knows  valuations  better  than 
any  outside  impartial  person  and  that  no  one  is 
more  competent  to  select  such  a  man  than  his 
own  neighbors. 

And  so  it  happens,  just  as  in  the  case  of  the 
sheriffs,  that  the  local  tax  officers  are  confronted 
with  conflicting  obligations.  They  must  take 
their  choice,  on  the  one  hand,  between  strict  ob- 
servance of  the  law  and  unpopularity,  with  the 
probable  loss  of  their  jobs  at  the  end  of  their 
term,  and  popularity  with  prospects  of  possible 
political  advancement  and  a  more  or  less  assured 
living,  on  the  other.  Inasmuch  as  there  is  never 
any  question  as  to  which  of  these  courses  is  the 
more  practical  and  immediately  profitable,  the 
tax  assessors  of  the  county  invariably  find  it 
infinitely  to  their  personal  advantage  to  serve 
the  locality  that  pays  their  salaries.  Assessors 
in  the  sister  counties  do  likewise ;  with  the  ultimate 
result  that  general  competition  arises  among  the 
counties  as  to  which  shall  value  property  lowest 
and  thus  pay  the  smallest  proportion  of  the  state's 
tax.  The  system  is  ideally  designed  to  reward 
dishonesty  and  perjury  and  punish  faithful  obe- 
dience to  the  law.  For,  as  a  former  New  York 
State  Tax  Commissioner  has  said,  "Under  assess- 
ment is  the  rule  throughout  the  state,  and  in 
L  nearly  all  the  tax  districts  intentionally  and 
l^  purposely  so."  The  range  of  these  assessments 
Bj^  well  known  to  be  anywhere  between  twenty- 
^Hve  and  ninety  per  cent,  of  the  full  value  of  the 


no  THE  COUNTY 

property.  And  the  assessors  "make  their  own 
laws  as  to  the  basis  of  assessing  property,  in 
deliberate  violation  of  the  statutes  and  then 
proceed  to  make  oath  to  the  assessment  rule  that 
they  have  assessed  all  property  at  its  full  value." 
That  what  is  true  of  New  York  is  equally  true  of 
most  other  states  where  an  analogous  system 
prevails,  is  the  testimony  of  tax  authorities. 

These  frailties  of  human  nature  the  states  have 
weakly  connived  at  by  the  provisions  they  have 
made  for  equalization  of  assessments.  It  is  the 
old  story  of  reform  via  complication  and,  as  one 
county  attorney  in  New  York  has  testified,  "  equal- 
ization in  this  state  is  an  abomination,  a  joke,  a 
cover  for  deals  and  trades,  a  means  of  purchase 
and  sale,  in  its  results  most  unfair  and  unjust, 
based  on  the  assumption  of  accomplished  perjury, 
in  itself  a  chief  cause  of  the  perjury.'*  A  Missouri 
authority  corroborates  by  remarking: 

"The  county  board  of  equalization  .  .  . 
does  little  to  improve  the  situation  as  it  is 
affected  by  the  same  conditions  which  influence 
the  acts  of  the  assessor.  Much  the  same  is 
true  of  the  state  board  of  equalization  which 
consists  of  the  Governor,  Secretary  of  State, 
State  Auditor,  State  Treasurer  and  Attorney- 
General.  This  board  has  authority  to  equalize 
assessments  among  the  counties,  but  not  among 
different  persons  or  property  within  the  county. 
The  officials  who  make  up  this  board  have 
neither  the  time,  information  nor  powers  to  ade- 
quately correct  the  evils.  Political  consid- 
erations also  affect  the  solution  of  the  problems ^ 


NULLIFICATION  iii 

But  the  way  to  a  sincere  and  logical  system  is 
not  easy.  Popular  sentiment  seems  to  favor  the 
status  quo.  For  the  first  time  in  the  history  of 
this  country,  Governor  Cox  of  Ohio  in  1913  per- 
suaded the  legislature  to  establish  a  unified  plan 
of  organization  for  local  assessment.  Inasmuch 
as  taxation  is  the  prerogative  of  the  state  govern- 
ment, he  proposed  a  system  of  tax  assessment 
which  would  have  made  this  idea  an  actual 
as  well  as  a  legal  fact.  The  law  would  have 
abolished  the  locally  elected  assessor  in  the  coun- 
ties. Full  control  would  have  been  placed  in  the 
hands  of  the  state  government,  since  the  Governor 
would  appoint  the  local  officials.  There  would 
probably,  in  the  nature  of  things,  have  been  an 
end  to  log-rolling  and  to  competition  between  the 
counties  to  ''beat"  the  state.  The  law  was 
passed,  but  it  was  so  unpopular  that  Governor 
Cox's  opponent  in  the  succeeding  election  used 
it  for  political  capital.  One  of  the  earliest  and 
proudest  achievements  of  his  administration  was 
the  repeal  of  this  law. 

And  so  our  old  friend  the  "average  citizen** 
finds  it  often  acceptable  to  have  a  county  govern- 
ment that  is  not  built  in  strict  conformance  with 
logic.  It  is  a  complicated  mechanism  to  be  sure, 
but  what  matter,  if  he  can  employ  a  chauffeur  to 
run  it?  To  meet  just  such  specific  demands  as 
this  the  professional  politician  and  his  illogical 
system  have  arisen  and  continue  to  exist. 


CHAPTER  XII 

STATE  MEDDLING 

Now  the  other  side  of  the  story. 

While  the  county  nonchalantly  and  with  seem- 
ing impunity  has  been  breaking  all  the  inconve- 
nient statutes,  the  state  in  its  own  peculiar  way 
has  been  working  out  a  method  of  "taking  it  out" 
of  the  county  for  the jjidignities  of  nullification. 
The  state's  "big  stick"  (which  it  Toes  not  always 
employ  to  a  public  purpose)  is  a  policy  of  meddle- 
someness which  expresses  itself  through  special 
legislation.     Of  which,  more  herewith. 

In  times  gone  by,  when  counties  were  almost 
universally  located  in  the  open  country,  and  be- 
fore the  rush  for  the  cities  had  set  apart  centers  of 
population  which  developed  their  special  mecha- 
nism of  local  government,  it  was  doubtless  ap- 
propriate that  constitutions  should  impose  upon 
legislature  the  duty  to  legislate  "uniformly"  for  all 
counties,  even  to  the  point  of  anticipating  some 
of  their  more  detailed  needs. 

Practically  every  state  legislature  was  given 
a  considerable,  if  not  complete,  power  to  bend  the 
county  to  its  will  in  every  particular  of  govem- 

112 


STATE  MEDDLING  113 

ment.  In  the  logic  of  the  law,  the  county  was  a 
subdivision  of  the  state  before  it  was  an  organ  of 
strictly  local  government.  The  legislature  might 
erect  new  counties  or  change  boundary  lines  at 
will,  with  the  one  limitation  in  some  states  that 
its  decision  is  subject  to  a  local  referendum.  It 
might  also  erect  new  county  offices  in  addition 
to  those  mentioned  in  the  constitution  and  fix 
their  powers  and  duties.  Long  ago  it  became  the 
accepted  principle  of  law  that  local  authorities 
might  exercise  only  such  powers  as  were  specifi- 
cally conferred  upon  them. 

The  theory  was,  apparently,  that  since  counties 
exist  to  execute  the  will  of  the  whole  state  and 
have  the  same  general  duties  to  perform,  all 
counties  can  and  must  perform  them  in  the  same 
^manner.  It  is  a  plausible  theory.  If  a  county 
is  to  administer  justice  it  needs  a  judge,  a  sheriff, 
a  prosecutor  and  a  court  clerk.  And  each  of 
these  officers  in  the  several  counties  should  follow 
as  closely  as  possible  an  identical  or  similar  pro- 
cedure. Every  county  must  have  a  fiscal  agency, 
a  governing  board,  and  be  required  to  observe 
certain  minimum  standards  in  the  handling  of  the 
funds  entrusted  to  its  care. 

Uniformity  up  to  this  point  is  doubtless  not 
burdensome  but  helpful.  But  by  carrying  a 
good  idea  too  far  the  legislatures  have  often  gone 
beyond  the  point  of  setting  up  a  general  organiza- 
tion and  procedure  and  have  descended  into  minor 
details  which  would  usually  best  be  determined  in 

8 


114  THE  COUNTY 

the  light  of  the  more  perfect  knowledge  of  local 
conditions  which  the  people  of  the  locality  may 
be  expected  to  possess. 

The  New  York  legislature,  for  instance,  has 
accepted  the  inertia  of  long-standing  custom  and 
permitted  to  stand  on  the  statutes  a  county  law 
under  which  the  boards  of  supervisors  in  all 
counties,  except  those  of  New  York  City,  are 
organized  in  precisely  the  same  manner.  No 
regard  for  the  far-reaching  historic  shifts  of  popu- 
lation ;  no  thought  as  to  how  deeply  the  social  and 
political  unity  of  a  particular  county  may  have 
been  shattered  by  the  growth  of  great  cities  in 
the  midst  of  apple  orchards  or  grain  fields.  The 
law  has  passively  assumed  that  voters  are  voters 
(just  as  "business  is  business"  and  "pigs  is  pigs") 
whether  they  reside  in  a  crowded  city  or  sparsely 
settled  countryside  where  everybody  knows  every- 
body else's  business  and  has  plenty  of  time  to 
play  politics. 

I  And  so  it  turns  out  that  Erie  County,  containing 
;the  city  of  Buffalo,  with  its  half  million  inhabit- 
ants surrounded  by  a  farming  district,  is  equipped 
with  the  same  general  form  of  government  as 
the  rough  and  sparsely  settled  counties  of  Warren 
and  Essex  in  the  Adirondacks. 

In  other  states,  for  Buffalo  substitute  Cleveland, 
or  Chicago  or  Milwaukee — great  cities  unequally 
yoked  with  an  agricultural  population  of  divergent 
interests. 

It  is  inevitable  under  the  circumstances  that 


STATE  MEDDLING  115 

the  states  through  their  legislatures  should  do  a 
good  deal  of  polite  nullifying  on  their  own  account. 
The  provisions  of  the  constitutions  relating  to 
legislative  powers  over  counties,  instead  of  being 
strictly  construed  have  ingeniously  circumvented. 
What  some  legislatures  could  do  in  defiance  of 
good  political  science  but  yet  without  legal  eva- 
sion the  California,  New  Jersey  and  other  legisla- 
tures have  accomplished  by  stretching  the  meaning 
''general"  or  ** uniform." 

Take  the  California,  practice.  In  the  words  of 
the  constitution  the  legislature  is  required  to 
establish  ''a  system  of  county  government  which 
shall  be  uniform  throughout  the  state."  But  it 
happens  that  these  counties  range  in  population 
from  a  few  hundred  to  over  half  a  million,  and  in 
area  from  755  to  23,000  square  miles.  Some  are 
strictly  rural,  while,  at  the  other  extreme,  is  one 
geographically  identical  with  the  city  of  San 
Francisco.  All  sorts  of  combinations  of  urban 
and  rural  conditions  intervene.  Some  of  the 
territory  is  traversed  by  steam  railroads  and 
trolley  lines  and  some  of  it  is  inaccessible  to  a 
stage  coach.  But  all  of  it  is  ''uniformly"  gov- 
erned. Inasmuch  as  the  legislature  never  could 
bring  itself  to  withhold  its  hand  from  the  minute 
details  of  county  business,  it  had  to  find  a  way  to 
"beat "  the  constitution.  It  placed  each  of  the  fifty- 
six  counties  in  a  separate  class,  and  passed  fifty-six 
''general"  laws,  each  applying  in  fact  to  a  single 
county,  but  not  mentioning  the  county  by  name! 


/ 


ii6  THE  COUNTY  i 

In  Illinois  the  habit  of  special  legislation  has 
led  the  Bureau  of  Public  Efficiency  to  remark  that : 
"The  General  Assembly  of  Illinois  might  with 
propriety  be  added  to  the  list  of  nineteen  local 
governing  bodies  of  Cook  County,  for  it  is  con- 
tinually interfering  in  an  arbitrary  manner  in 
matters  of  local  administration." 

New  Jersey  has  sinned  quite  as  grievously  and 
its  courts  have  consistently  upheld  the  act  even 
against  a  provision  of  the  constitution  which 
expressly  prohibits  the  legislature  from  "regulat- 
ing the  internal  affairs  of  towns  and  counties." 
(•  But  lest  the  full  import  of  these  statements 
should  be  lost,  the  following  titles  of  special  county 
bills  in  a  single  session  of  a  New  York  legislature, 
are  cited  in  evidence: 

Authorizing  conveyance  of  land  on  Holland 
Avenue. 

Striking  out  the  provision  authorizing  county 
treasurer  to  appoint  an  attorney. 

Regulating  tax  collection  procedure. 

Fixing  compensation  of  unskilled  laborers. 

Correcting  191 5  tax  roll. 

Creating  a  county  auditor. 

Increasing  salary  of  sheriff,  etc. 

Levy  of  taxes  to  meet  cost  of  sanitary  trunk 
sewer. 

Regulating  management  of  penitentiary  and 
workhouse. 

Creating  commissioner  of  charities. 

Too  often  the  motive  of  the  legislators  has  not 


STATE  MEDDLING  117 

been  to  make  the  county  the  state's  more  obedient 
servant,  but  to  ''bleed"  it  to  the  utmost  for  po- 
litical purposes.  Back  of  the  real  difficulties 
of  adjusting  the  state's  responsibilities  to  the 
idea  of  local  control  over  administrative  details, 
is  too  evident  the  suspicion  that  the  political 
machine  needs  the  county  very  much  "in  its 
business." 

For  this  reason,  doubtless,  special  legislation 
affecting  counties  is  so  often  inseparably  associated 
with  the  forcible  opening  of  the  county  treasury. 
New  York  City  in  recent  years  has  suffered  griev- 
ously from  mandatory  salary  increases,  imposed 
in  many  cases  by  a  party  of  the  opposite  political 
faith  from  the  one  in  control  over  the  local  budget. 
Thus  in  191 5  out  of  a  total  budget  allowance  of 
$7jOC)3j7i6.82  for  county  purposes,  the  sum  of 
$4,858,77347  or  69.1  per  cent,  represented  man- 
datory appropriations  which  could  not  be  in- 
creased or  diminished  by  the  local  budget  makers 
either  because  the  exact  amount  was  fixed  by  law 
or  because  the  power  of  fixation  was  conferred 
upon  other  officers  than  the  appropriating  body 
of  the  city.  Many  of  the  measures  in  question 
dealt  with  the  salaries  of  clerks,  stenographers 
and  messengers.  Of  the  total  allowance  in  the 
same  year  for  personal  services  (salaries,  etc.)  of 
$5,809,481.75,  78  per  cent,  or  $4^576,98575  was 
beyond  local  control.  While  by  far  the  greater 
proportion  of  these  sums  were  just  and  necessary, 
the  margin  of  waste  which  represented  one  hun- 


ii8  THE  COUNTY 

dred  per  cent,  politics,  was,  without  a  doubt,  ex- 
ceedingly large. 

Nor  have  the  legislatures  been  led  to  take  this 
course  for  reasons  of  public  economy.  In  thus 
appropriating  other  people's  money  according  to 
its  professedly  superior  knowledge  of  the  state's 
needs,  it  does  not  often  appear  to  give  heed  to 
standards  of  experience  or  of  service  rendered. 
Often  it  is  but  the  old  story  of  the  influences  back 
of  the  bill  with  this  title:  ''An  Act,  providing  for 

the  appointment  by  the  sheriff  of  County, 

of  an  undersheriff ,  fireman  and  court  officers,  and 
for  their  compensation  and  duties."  When  the 
truth  came  out  it  appeared  that  the  sheriff  and 
the  board  of  supervisors  were  of  opposite  parties. 
The  sheriff  (whether  rightly  or  wrongly)  was  not  to 
be  put  aside.  He  simply  appealed  over  the  heads 
of  his  ''superiors"  to  a  higher  authority  for  what 
he  wanted — and  got  it.  The  people  had  elected 
a  Board  of  Supervisors,  to  manage  the  county 
finances,  but  at  the  moment  when  this  body 
might  have  effected  a  just  economy,  it  was  forcibly 
stripped  of  their  powers. 

Theoretically  the  legislature  in  the  case  cited 
intervened,  but  what  probably  happened  was 
that  someone  saw  the  representative  in  the  legis- 
lature from  the  county  in  question  and  he  "fixed'* 
it  with  the  proper  committee.  The  speaker  let  the 
bill  go  through  on  the  floor  of  the  legislature. 

From  the  standpoint  of  the  local  politician 
or  petty  officeholder  who   is   looking  for  special 


STATE  MEDDLING  119 

privilege,  via  the  back-door  method,  and  of  the 
home  legislator  who  does  the  *' fixing,"  special 
legislation  is  thus  doubtless  a  benevolent  privilege 
which  enables  men  to  put  various  local  people 
in  their  debt  for  future  purposes.  For  the  **  or- 
ganization" of  the  dominant  party,  the  power  to 
give  to  or  withhold  from  the  local  municipalities  is 
often  not  the  least  important  element  of  its  power. 
As  for  the  county,  for  its  sins  of  nullification 
it  would  seem  to  be  appropriately  penalized, 
particularly  if  it  belongs  in  the  metropolitan  class. 
It  has  been  placed  under  a  sort  of  patriarchal 
discipline,  robbed  of  much  of  its  individuality 
and  initiative;  its  responsible  officers  subjected 
to  humiliation  from  subordinates;  its  resources 
diverted  to  partisan  uses. 


CHAPTER  XIII 

STATE  GUIDANCE 

At  this  point  the  indictment  of  the  county 
ceases.  It  is  not  an  altogether  hopeless  situation. 
The  very  thoroughness  of  the  county's  failure  is 
the  chief  promise  of  ultimate  redemption. 

Not  because  the  county  is  constructed  on  an  un- 
sound political  theory,  not  because  it  has  shocked 
the  sense  of  humanity,  but  because  of  its  riotous 
^  misuse  of  public  funds,  it  has  begun  to  attract  the 
attention  of  higher  authorities. 

Where  does  the  county's  money  go?  It  has 
been  strongly  intimated  in  previous  chapters 
that  the  citizens  of  the  county  and  sometimes 
even  the  county  officers  know  little  and  care  less. 
Is  it  economically  run?  No  one  can  easily  tell, 
without  knowing  what  other  county  governments 
are  costing,  service  for  service  and  unit  for  unit. 
And  no  one  can  make  such  a  comparison  between 
counties  unless  they  have  some  common  basis  of 
understanding.  To  establish  standards  in  the 
use  of  terms,  to  make  in  other  words,  each  county 
tell  its  financial  story  in  a  language  understood 
throughout  the  state,   to  bring  the  information 

120 


STATE  GUIDANCE  121 

from  the  various  counties  together  for  comparison, 
to  insist  upon  a  sufficiently  detailed  description 
of  financial  activities,  is  the  object  of  uniform 
reporting. 

"^  And  who  can  force  such  a  coming  together  for  a 
common  understanding  other  than  the  state  itself? 

Among  the  states  where  county  government  is 
of  appreciable  importance,  Ohio  was  the  pioneer 
in  the  direction  indicated  by  this  suggestion. 
The  law  enacted  in  that  state  in  1902  approached 
the  county  problem  with  the  conviction  that 
what  was  needed  above  all  else  was  more  light — SL 
in  an  administrative  sense;  that  when  the  short- 
comings of  county  government  could  be  reduced 
to  statistics  and  comparisons  (invidious  if  neces- 
sary) could  be  made  between  various  units,  then 
some  real  improvements  might  be  reasonably 
expected.  Provision  was  made  in  the  enactment 
for  a  state  Bureau  of  Inspection  and  Supervision 
of  Public  Offices  which  should  install  a  uniform 
system  of  public  accounting,  auditing  and  report- 
ing in  every  office  in  the  state.  A  corps  of  field 
agents  known  as  state  examiners  were  employed 
on  a  civil  service  basis  to  make  personal  examina- 
tions in  each  of  the  taxing  districts.  The  findings 
of  the  examiners  are  published,  and  if  money  is 
due  the  county  the  enforcement  of  the  law  is  left 
first  to  the  county  prosecuting  attorney  and  then 
to  the  attorney  general. 

New  York  followed  the  lead  of  Ohio  by  passing 
in  1905  a  law  which    requires  counties,  villages 


122  THE  COUNTY 

^Sud  cities,  to  report  annually  to  the  comptroller 
on  forms  prescribed  by  him. 

"Indiana  and  Ohio,"  says  Professor  John  A. 
Boyle, ^  "has  gone  into  the  science  and  art  of  uni- 
form accounting  very  seriously  and  very  effectively. 
The  Indiana  law  (1909,  ch.  55,  amended  March  3, 
191 1),  creates  a  Department  of  Inspection  and  Su- 
pervision of  Public  Offices  having  jurisdiction  over 
every  public  office  in  the  state.  The  administra- 
tion of  the  law  was  entrusted  at  the  outset  to  one 
state  examiner,  two  deputies,  one  clerk,  and  fifty- 
two  field  agents  working  on  a  civil  service  basis. 
Uniform  accounting  is  prescribed  and  installed. 
Comparative  statistics  are  compiled  by  the  state 
examiner  and  published  annually,  so  that  the  fruits 
of  this  department  are  available  to  the  public." 

Wyoming  has  a  fair  system  of  audit. 

The  North  Dakota  law,  while  it  requires  the 
state  examiner  "to  prescribe  and  enforce  correct 
methods,"  does  not  call  for  a  uniform  system. 
Massachusetts,  Kansas,  Georgia,  Iowa,  Nevada, 
Florida,  Tennessee,  New  Mexico,  Arizona,  Colo- 
rado, Oklahoma,  Washington,  Minnesota,  West 
Virginia,  Louisiana,  California  and  Michigan  have 
more  or  less  complete  systems  of  state  finan- 
cial supervision.  The  "black  sheep"  among  the 
states  in  this  respect  are  Alabama,  Arkansas, 
Delaware,  Illinois,  Kentucky,  Maine,  Maryland, 
Mississippi,    Missouri,    New    Hampshire,    North 

^  See  Annals  of  the  American  Academy  of  Political  and  Social 
Science t  May  19 13.  pp.  199-213. 


STATE  GUIDANCE  123 

Carolina,  Rhode  Island,  South  Carolina,  Texas, 
Utah,  Vermont  and  Virginia. 

Now  for  the  results  of  this  supervision. 

Professor  Boyle  has  summed  up  the  sort  of 
assistance  that  the  state  bureaus  of  accounting 
have  been  able  to  give.  One  instance  of  such 
help  is  that  where  county  officers  had  been  accus- 
tomed in  the  past  to  take  long  and  expensive 
junkets  to  inspect  public  buildings,  expert  advice 
under  the  new  system  has  been  rendered  to  them  V- 
in  much  cheaper  form  through  the  investigators 
of  the  state.  Examiners  have  also  been  able 
to  point  out  to  county  officers  many  deviations 
from  the  letter  of  the  law,  the  strict  compliance 
with  which  is  of  the  most  vital  importance  in  the 
performance  of  certain  county  functions,  such  as 
taxation.  In  a  similar  way  they  have  checked  up 
illegal  charges  against  the  county,  inadequate  audit  \ 
(or  no  audit  at  all),  instances  of  additional  compen- 
sation (under  various  guises)  for  personal  service, 
illegal  temporary  loans  and  misapplication  of  funds. 

It  will  at  once  be  seen  that  the  mere  possibility 
of  a  state  examiner's  visit  will  have  an  admoni- 
tory effect  which  in  itself  will  often  be  sufficient 
to  keep  an  official  in  the  straight  and  narrow  path. 
The  county,  in  conforming  to  the  reporting  re- 
quirements, derives  a  local  benefit  wholly  apart 
from  any  obligation  to  the  state.  Upon  the  basis  ^ 
of  a  sound  and  permanent  system  of  accounting 
the  local  officers  are  in  a  position  accurately  to 
inform  the  county  of  their  doings  and  make  com- 


124 


THE  COUNTY 


iparison  of  a  financial  transaction  of  one  year  with 
those  of  previous  years.  Herein  is  one  founda- 
tion stone  of  a  scientific  budget. 

Under  a  complete  system  of  state  regulation  not 
only  are  the  forms  and  standards  of  uniform  ac- 
counting established,  but  a  staff  of  expert  examiners 
is  created  to  determine  by  periodical  investigation, 
whether  or  not  these  standards  are  lived  up  to. 

The  remarkable  conditions  preceding  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  Ohio  Bureau  and  the  important 
services  which  it  has  rendered  the  state,  are  re- 
vealed in  the  following  summary^  of  its  findings 
in  counties  during  the  first  ten  years  of  its  existence. 


STATEMENT  OF  FINDINGS  TO  NOVEMBER  15,  1912 

COUNTIES 


Year 

Findings  for 
Recovery 

Illegal 
Payments 

Unclaimed 
Moneys 

Total 
Illegal 

Returns 

1903 
1904 
1905 

$50,268.93 

57,805.54 

246,280.58 

$18,808.91 
2,504.41 
7,421.87 

$807.92 

10,339-95 
25,389-52 

$69,884.76 

70,649.90 

279,091.97 

$10,741.93 

2,222.31 
24,847.83 

1906 
1907 
1908 

295,082.80 

646,397-50 
103,764.26 

14,227.52 

115,906.91 

43,333-31 

5,218.21 

18,049.13 

9,829.15 

314,528.53 

780,353-54 
156,928.92 

232,156.78 

322,911.08 

41,171-53 

1909 
1910 
1911 

410,282.51 
146,024.04 

233,547-24 

320,137.17 
106,410.00 
129,007.02 

23,219.42 

22,241.18 

7,921.90 

753,639-10 
274,675.22 
370,476.16 

66,219.91 

24,438.36 
37,735.34 

1912 

112,926.80 

No  report 

118.26 

113,045.06 

96,015.16 

Ttls 

$2,302,379.30 

$757,759-32 

$123,134.54 

$3,183,273.16 

$858,460.23 

^  Prof.  John  H.  Boyle,  op.  cit.,  p.  203. 


^  STATE  GUIDANCE  125 

TAX  ADMINISTRATION 

A  branch  of  local  fiscal  administration  which  is 
in  far  less  satisfactory  shape  is  that  of  taxation. 
In  no  department  is  "nullification,"  as  has  been 
already  shown,  more  constant  and  serious.  The 
situation  is  complicated.  In  seventeen  of  the 
states,  including  every  one  north  of  the  Ohio  and 
Potomac  rivers,  and  east  of  the  Mississippi,  except 
Illinois,  Indiana  and  Maryland,  the  county  as  a 
whole  has  very  little  to  do  with  assessments  for 
the  general  property  tax,  the  unit  for  assessment 
in  that  section  being  the  town  or  township.  That 
in  nearly  all  these  states  the  general  property  tax 
may  be  said  to  have  broken  down,  would  seem  to 
be  indicated  by  the  establishment  of  a  permanent 
state  tax  commission  or  commissioner  in  all  of 
them  except  Pennsylvania.  In  thirty-one  states 
in  the  South  and  West,  the  county  is  the  unit  of 
assessment,  and  in  its  favor  it  may  be  said  that 
in  this  role  it  has  proven  a  far  more  satisfactory 
performer  than  the  town.  The  county  is  small 
enough  to  serve  as  a  convenient  unit  for  assess- 
ment operations  and  assessment  records  and 
furnishes  the  basis  of  a  system  of  fewer  units  than 
if  the  town  were  the  basis.  Under  the  county 
plan,  moreover,  there  are  fewer  opportunities  for 
communities  to  compete  against  each  other  in  their 
effort  to  escape  their  just  share  of  the  general 
burden  of  government.  It  is  significant  that 
most  of  the  western  states  have  seen  the  advan- 


126  THE  COUNTY 

tages  of  the  county  as  the  local  unit  of  ad- 
ministration. 

But  the  county,  for  all  that,  appears  to  be  in- 
capable of  standing  on  its  own  feet  in  tax  matters. 
Even  under  the  most  favorable  circumstances 
there  remains  an  important  duty  for  a  state  com- 
mission to  supervise  the  work  of  the  county 
assessor  or  board  of  assessors  to  the  end  that  the 
letter  of  the  law  may  be  obeyed  with  the  utmost 
uniformity  throughout  the  state.  Such  a  com- 
mission must  see  that  the  county  does  injustice 
to  neither  individuals  nor  the  state  through  inequal 
assessment  and  that  the  tax  sales  are  in  accordance 
with  the  law. 

The  county,  in  short,  has  a  useful  place  in  the 
general  scheme  of  tax  administration,  but  it  must 
be  a  supervised  unit. 

CIVIL  SERVICE 

In  the  administration  of  the  civil  service  law 
the  county  also  does  well  to  lean  upon  the  state. 
The  same  considerations  that  apply  in  accounting 
and  tax  matters  apply  with  equal  force  in  the 
selection  of  the  employees.  Most  of  the  counties 
are  too  small  to  serve  as  units  in  which  to  install 
facilities  for  conducting  examinations  and  publish- 
ing useful  records.  The  superior  powers  of  the 
state  commission  over  the  localities  in  these 
respects  are  emphatically  not  a  destructive  check 
upon  the  county's  officers.  They  do  not  detract 
from  local   responsibility.-     They   simply   enable 


STATE  GUIDANCE  127 

them  to  apply  to  their  work  the  most  effective 
means  available. 

In  New  York  the  state  civil  service  commission 
regulates  the  service  in  eighteen  counties.  In  New 
Jersey  the  adoption  of  the  civil  service  law  in- 
volving state  control  rests  with  the  people  of 
each  county.  Hudson,  Essex,  Mercer,  Passaic  and 
Union  counties  have  taken  advantage  of  the  law. 

Administration  apart  from  fiscal  supervision 
in  other  departments,  such  as  charities,  prisons 
and  public  health,  has  advanced  much  more 
slowly  than  reform  in  the  fields  which  have  been 
mentioned.  But  every  indication  for  the  future 
is  toward  greater  control  through  accounting  and 
supervision.  The  county  acts  locally  in  the  en- 
forcement of  state  obligations.  The  real  trouble 
comes  when  one  undertakes,  arbitrarily,  to  place 
any  given  county  activity  in  the  local  or  state 
category.  The  catching  of  a  thief,  for  example, 
is  a  very  essential  part  of  the  state's  most  funda- 
mental duty  to  protect  property,  but  the  locality^ 
where  the  crime  is  committed  is  very  keenly 
interested  in  having  the  machinery  of  the  county 
set  to  work  to  punish  the  deed.  The  locality  pays 
the  sheriff  his  salary  or  his  fees,  but  the  state, 
in  protecting  the  property  of  its  citizens,  is  prob- 
ably justified  in  guarding  against  extravagant  or 
dishonest  use  by  the  people  of  the  county  even 
of  their  own  money. 

And  so  it  is  impracticable  and  not  by  any  means 
necessary    to   give   the    county    quite   unbridled 


128  THE  COUNTY 

liberty  to  control  all  its  officers.  Central  super- 
vision is  a  middle  course  that  protects  the  state 
and  instead  of  impairing,  really  conserves  the 
county's  interests.  The  state,  without  instructing 
the  county  as  to  what  it  may  do  with  its  purely 
local  powers,  may  lay  a  firm  hand  upon  it  in 
telling  how  to  use  those  powers  effectively.  Such 
a  course  is  conceived  in  quite  a  different  spirit 
from  the  destructive  sort  of  state  meddling  which 
was  described  in  the  preceding  chapter,  which 
proceeds  from  the  legislative  branch  of  the  central 
government.  What  the  state  government  actu- 
ally does  when  it  regulates  or  supervises  is  to  hold 
up  the  county  official  to  standards  of  perform- 
ance. This  is  the  proper  work  of  officers  or  boards 
in  the  administrative  branch.  It  relates  not  to 
what  the  county  shall  do  as  a  matter  of  broad 
policy,  but  how  the  county  shall  redeem  its  obliga- 
tion in  matters  of  routine,  detail  and  technique. 
The  state  agency  may  have  only  the  power  to 
"  visit  and  inspect,"  like  the  New  York  State  Board 
of  Charities,  or  it  may,  like  the  Comptroller  of 
the  same  state,  actually  impose  forms  of  pro- 
cedure. In  either  case,  local  officers  otherwise  un- 
stimulated to  efficient  work,  as  they  must  be  under 
the  present  system  of  government,  are  thus  given 
moral  support  from  a  responsible  quarter.  They 
are  subjected  to  a  cold,  unescapable  comparison 
with  other  officers  in  other  localities  and  they 
are  given  the  benefit  of  expert  advice  on  many  ob- 
scure and  complex  phases  of  public  administration. 


CHAPTER  XIV 

READJUSTMENTS 

So  much  by  way  of  accepting  counties  as  they 
are.  "State  guidance"  goes  a  long  way  as  a 
palliative  of  unsatisfactory  conditions.  It  is  a 
sort  of  permanent  first  aid  to  the  injured. 

But  the  county  needs  surgical  treatment!  In 
some  cases  it  is  well  to  fix  responsibility.  In  ex- 
tremities it  becomes  necessary  to  amputate. 

Bear  in  mind,  to  begin  w4th,  the  fact  that  the 
county  at  bottom  is  really  a  piece  of  the  state,  a 
local  agency.  The  prevailing  practice  of  local 
election  of  officers  and  its  logical  sequence,  local 
nullification,  have  done  much  to  obscure  the  real 
iriterestsT"  of  the  state  at  the  county  court  house, 
till  the  average  run  of  citizens  have  long  forgotten 
that  the  distinction  exists;  that  officers  like  the 
sheriff,  district  attorney,  public  administrator  and 
coroner  are  not  strictly  local  officers  at  all  but 
subordinates  of  the  general  state  government. 

By  far  the  most  important  branch  of  general 

administration  with  which   county  officers   serve 

is  the  judiciary.     Counties,  except  in  a  few  states, 

are  the  units  for  selection  of  judges  having  original 
9  129 


I30  THE  COUNTY 

jurisdiction  in  both  civil  and  criminal  cases  which 
involve  moderate  amounts  of  money  and  less 
than  the  most  serious  offenses.  With  the  county 
court  also  is  generally  associated  probate  jurisdic- 
tion, which  is  exercised  in  some  of  the  eastern 
states  by  a  special  ofBcer  known  as  the  surrogate, 
who  may  be  a  judge  as  in  New  York,  or  a  purely 
ministerial  officer,  as  in  New  Jersey. 

Legally  the  judiciary  is  more  nearly  a  part  of 
a  state  system  than  any  other  branch  of  the  county 
organization.  The  decisions  of  the  judges  are 
of  course  subject  to  appeal  to  a  higher  state 
court — that  is  an  important  form  of  control. 
Sometimes,  as  in  California,  a  part  of  the  salary 
of  the  county  judge  is  paid  from  state  funds. 
Probably  too  the  greater  popular  respect  that 
hedges  about  the  bench  is  sufficient  to  set  it  apart 
from  much  of  the  sinister  influence  that  often 
affects  the  other  officers  of  the  county.  Never- 
theless, the  county  court  in  common  with  other 
divisions  of  the  judiciary,  is  subject  to  a  wide 
variety  of  disintegrating  forces.  It  has  a  varie- 
gated allegiance:  to  the  people  (in  most  of  the 
states)  for  its  original  selection,  to  the  county 
governing  body  for  many  incidental  items  of  finan- 
cial support,  and  to  higher  judicial  authority  for 
confirmation  or  revision  of  its  decisions.  It  does 
not  control  its  executive  agents,  such  as  the  sheriff 
and  the  county  clerk,  who  are  usually  independent 
elective  officers. 

The  readjustment  of  this  situation  can  hardly 


READJUSTMENTS  131 

be  effected  satisfactorily  apart  from  a  complete 
reorganization  of  the  state's  judicial  system.  This 
will  undoubtedly  involve,  among  other  things,  a 
much  more  complete  central  control  on  the  part 
of  a  state  chief  justice  and  a  judicial  council.  The 
courts  must  be  organized  with  a  keener  apprecia- 
tion that  a  judge  in  rendering  just  and  learned 
decisions  is  a  part  of  a  business  machine — he  is 
waiting  on  customers;  that  there  is  no  sound 
reason  why  the  judicial  department  should  defy 
the  principle  of  responsibility  any  more  than  a  de- 
partment which  serves  the  public  in  another  way. 

In  the  general  overhauling  of  the  systems, 
perhaps  the  elective  county  judge  will  disappear. 
But  liberty,  for  all  that,  will  not  vanish  from  the 
earth.  States  as  diverse  in  their  location  and  com- 
position as  New  Hampshire,  Connecticut,  New 
Jersey  and  South  Carolina  never  drifted  quite 
completely  into  the  habit  of  "electing  every- 
body,'* and  they  are  good  states.  The  Federal 
judiciary,  too,  is  appointive,  and  it  is  not  more 
culpable,  by  standards  of  either  the  progressive- 
ness  or  of  administrative  efficiency,  than  most  of 
the  state  courts. 

The  earthquake,  we  may  hope,  will  also  shake 
up  the  justices  of  the  peace,  who  in  any  self- 
respecting  organization  of  the  courts  will  either 
disappear  or  be  linked  up,  as  the  American  Judi- 
cature Society  proposes,  in  a  county  system,  with 
the  county  judge  in  control.  The  justices  are 
now  associated  with  the  town  or  a  corresponding 


i 


132  THE  COUNTY 

division  of  the  county  and  deal  with  very  minor 
(but  not  for  that  reason  insignificant)  civil  and 
criminal  cases,  or  act  as  a  tribunal  for  preliminary 
hearings  and  commitments.  In  cities  the  office 
has  steadily  and  hopelessly  decayed  by  transfer 
of  its  jurisdiction  to  other  courts  and  through 
the  abuses  of  the  fee  system.  It  was  established 
moreover  when  means  of  transportation  were 
few  and  difficult  and  districts  consequently  had 
to  be  made  small  in  order  to  meet  the  convenience 
of  the  litigants  who  came  seeking  justice.  But 
times  have  changed!  Circumstances  favor  larger 
districts  and  infinitely  better  control  over  this 
branch  of  the  judiciary. 

In  making  over  the  courts  we  cannot  properly 
overlook  the  machinery  for  enforcing  judicial 
decisions.  This  is  ,the  function  of  the  sheriff. 
Where,  in  the  reconstructed  scheme  of  things 
shall  he  come  in?  Our  forefathers  committed 
themselves  to  the  theory  of  the  separation  of 
powers,  these  three:  the  legislative,  the  executive 
and  the  judicial.  Under  this  scheme  of  things 
the  duty  of  judges  is  to  find  or  interpret  the  law : 
nothing  more.  The  sheriff  as  an  executive  officer 
is  therefore  always  independent  of  the  court: 
he  is  the  enforcer  of  state  laws  which  come  to  him 
in  the  form  of  very  specific  instructions  by  way 
of  court  decisions.  Such  instructions  are  issued 
in  the  interest  of  parties  to  a  legal  controversy. 

But  the  sheriff  is  not  the  only  law  enforcer  in  the 
county.     The  state  has  made  the  board  of  super- 


READJUSTMENTS  133 

visors  (or  board  of  commissioners)  and   county 
officers  its  agents  in  enforcing  various  state  laws. 
And  so  the  question  arises:  why  not  bring  all  the 
enforcing  agencies  under  a  single  control?     Two 
ways  suggest  themselves.     If  the  judicial  system  I 
is  to  be  a  unified  state  affair,  then  judicial-decision 
enforcing  should  also  be  a  state  concern  and  the  i 
county  should  keep  its  hands  off.     In  practice  this 
would  mean  that  the  governor  or  some  other  gen- 
eral state  officer  should  appoint  the  sheriffs  on  the 
same  principle  which  is  employed  in  the  federal 
government,  wherein  the  President  appoints  U.  S. 
marshals.     But,  if  on  the  other  hand,  the  county  ' 
government  is  to  be  considered  as  a  general  local ; 
agency  of  the  state  for  enforcing  all  its  laws,  then  * 
nothing  remains  but  to  put  it  up  to  the  local  gov- 
erning body  or  some  local  chief  executive  to  select 
the  sheriff.     Such  is  the  method  which  has  been 
applied  in  the  city  and  county  of  Denver,  Colo- 
rado, where  the  mayor  is  the  chief  executive  of 
the  consolidated  governments. 

And  what  of  the  coroner?  Every  authority 
worthy  of  credence  is  agreed  that  this  office,  above 
all  others  in  the  county,  has  long  outlived  its  use- 
fulness. That  one  small  head  should  contain  the 
necessary  skill  of  criminal  investigator,  medical 
expert  and  magistrate  is  far  too  much  to  expect 
of  any  ordinary  mortal.  A  few  states,  following 
Massachusetts,  which  abolished  the  coronership 
in  1877,  have  created  an  office  under  various  titles, 
such  as  "medical  examiner,"  "county  physician" 


134  THE  COUNTY 

(New  Jersey),  "medical  referee"  (New  Hamp- 
shire), etc.  They  have  modernized  the  coroner- 
ship  by  stripping  it  of  its  magisterial  powers  and 
taking  it  off  the  ballot.  In  most  cases  the  new 
medical  officer  is  an  expert  pathologist  and  his 
services  are  often  of  the  greatest  value  in  criminal 
and  civil  actions  and  to  the  cause  of  science.  In 
New  York  City  the  coroners  now  in  office  in  the 
five  boroughs  will  go  out  of  office  on  January  i, 
1 91 8,  their  powers  of  investigation  will  then  be 
transferred  to  a  chief  medical  examiner  appointed 
by  the  mayor,  and  a  corps  of  assistants  who  will 
be  equipped  with  ample  laboratory  facilities.  The 
judicial  duties  of  the  coroner  will  be  turned  over 
to  the  city  magistrates. 

As  for  the  district  attorney,^  his  proper  rela- 
tions to  a  criminal  trial  and  to  the  public  seem 
\  to  be  generally  misunderstood.  He  is  the  state's 
advocate  as  against  the  breaker  of  the  law.  But 
it  is  no  part  of  his  business  to  send  every  alleged 
offender  to  the  penitentiary.  The  efficiency  of 
the  prosecutor  is  not  to  be  determined  by  a  high 
record  of  convictions.  He  is  not,  properly,  a  man- 
hunter.  Nor  is  it  his  province  to  decide  when  he 
shall  bear  down  hard  upon  offenders  and  when  he 
shall  soften  justice.  His  functions,  in  short,  are 
administrative  and  not  political.  And  when  that 
fact  is  admitted  every  reason  why  he  should  be 
popularly    elected    falls.     In    the    ideal    county, 

'  Variously  designated  in  different  states  as  state's  attorney, 
prosecutor  of  the  pleas,  county  attorney  and  solicitor. 


READJUSTMENTS  135 

efficiency  in  the  administration  of  justice  will  not 
be  a  perennial  local  campaign  issue,  for  the  prose- 
cutor will  be  appointed  by  some  responsible 
state  authority,  such  as  the  governor  or  attorney 
general,  not  as  a  reward  for  political  services  but 
on  the  basis  of  merit  and  fitness.  Or  if,  perchance, 
it  shall  be  deemed  unwise  so  to  centralize  author- 
ity, it  would  at  least  be  logical  to  let  the  county 
authorities  do  the  appointing. 

There  remains  to  be  disposed  of  the  clerk  of 
court.  ^  His  relation  to  the  bench  is  rather  a 
closer  one  than  that  of  the  sheriff,  so  close  that 
in  some  jurisdictions  it  has  not  been  thought  a 
violation  of  the  theory  of  the  separation  of  powers 
to  allow  the  judge  or  the  whole  court  to  appoint 
him.  Such  indeed  would  seem  the  proper  course. 
But  in  many  counties  the  business  of  court-clerk- 
ing is  hardly  onerous  enough  to  engage  a  separate 
officer  and  the  duties  have  accordingly  been 
transferred  to  the  county  clerk.  This  officer  usu- 
ally performs  a  variety  of  functions,  among  which 
are  his  services  as  clerk  of  the-  county  board 
and  as  the  local  custodian  or  register  of  legal 
papers  required  to  be  filed  under  certain  state 
laws.  In  counties  where  this  "bunching"  of 
functions  has  to  be  resorted  to,  the  least  that 
should  be  done  by  way  of  readjustment  should 
be  to  help  along  the  unification  of  the  county 
government  by  vesting  the  appointment  of  the 
county  clerk  in  the  county  board  or  a  county 

*  In  Pennsylvania  known  as  the  "prothonotary." 


136  THE  COUNTY 

executive  to  be  established.  In  the  larger  coun- 
ties where  the  volume  of  county  business  warrants 
a  separation  of  functions,  there  seems  to  be  no 
sound  reason  why  such  duties  as  the  filing  of 
papers  should  not  be  in  the  hands  of  an  officer 
appointed  by  some  state  official,  to  represent  him 
in  the  locality.  In  this  way  certain  counties  at 
least  would  be  completely  divested  of  responsibili- 
ties of  which  they  appear  never  to  have  acquitted 
themselves  too  well.  The  county^s  ultimate  place 
in  the  sun  is  being  determined  by  a  stripping 
process:  the  state  is  taking  up  its  work. 

Thus  in  the  domain  of  charities.  We  pointed 
out  in  Chapter  IX  that  the  county  was  hopelessly 
deficient  in  caring  for  the  insane,  the  defectives 
and  the  criminals.  Modern  methods,  which  are 
humane  methods,  have  come  to  demand  strict 
classification  as  the  very  starting  point  for  treat- 
ment. But  unless  the  number  of  subjects  for 
treatment  is  reasonably  large,  the  expense  of  such 
classification  is  prohibitive.  Most  counties  can- 
not supply  the  numbers.  They  find  themselves 
in  the  predicament  of  a  rural  sheriff  who  has  in 
custody  an  average  of  perhaps  six  prisoners.  If 
his  county  were  to  obey  the  law  it  would  have 
ready  at  all  times  an  establishment  which  provided 
special  accommodations  for  almost  forty  different 
classes  of  inmates. 

Under  these  circumstances  the  only  course  is  to 
transfer  as  many  classes  of  prisoners  as  possible 
to  the  care  of  a  larger  unit  of  government  that  is 


READJUSTMENTS  137 

able  economically  to  segregate.  This  transfer 
actually  began  in  some  of  the  older  states  in  the 
eighteenth  century.  Massachusetts  led  the  move- 
ment by  erecting  a  special  prison  on  Castle  Island 
for  the  most  desperate  type  of  convicts.  In 
1796,  New  York  began  the  construction  of  two 
state  prisons  in  New  York  and  Albany.  In  181 6, 
Ohio  built  a  state  penitentiary  at  Columbus  and 
in  1839,  Michigan  completed  its  first  state  prison 
at  Jackson.  Reform  institutions  in  this  country 
began  to  be  established  in  Massachusetts  in  1846 
when  juvenile  offenders  were  removed  from  local 
jails  and  state  prisons.  Since  then  separate  insti- 
tutions for  boys  and  girls  have  been  established 
in  nearly  all  of  the  eastern  states.  New  York  in 
1877  erected  the  first  reformatory  to  which  adult 
convicts  could  be  committed  under  an  indeter- 
minate sentence. 

As  for  the  care  of  the  insane,  this  was  the  first 
department  of  public  welfare  administration  that 
was  taken  over  by  the  whole  state,  beginning 
with  the  establishment  of  the  first  hospital  in 
Utica,  New  York,  in  1843.  From  time  to  time 
other  states  have  followed  New  York's  example 
until  nearly  every  state  has  one  or  more  hospitals. 
With  the  increase  in  the  number  of  institutions 
in  a  given  state  further  segregation  and  classifica- 
tion of  inmates  has  been  possible.  State  institu- 
tions now  furnish  the  means  for  appropriate 
education  for  the  mentally  defective  who  formerly 
were  left  to  shift  for  themselves  in  mismanaged 


138  THE  COUNTY 

county  almshouses.  The  deaf,  dumb  and  blind 
have  been  taken  care  of  in  similar  fashion.  In- 
deed, the  function  of  county  poor  relief  would 
now  seem  to  approach  as  its  ideal,  the  complete 
transfer  to  the  state  of  all  charity  functions 
except  possibly  a  certain  amount  of  temporary 
"out-door"  relief.  But  even  this  rather  narrow 
field  has  been  invaded,  for,  in  New  England  and 
New  York,  at  least,  a  class  of  ''state  poor  "  is  known 
to  the  statutes. 

That  the  county  has  often  sadly  broken  down 
in  the  guardianship  of  life  and  property  is  a  fact 
which  has  come  into  prominence  within  very 
recent  years.  As  the  police  force  of  the  big  cities 
become  more  and  more  efficient  the  field  of  opera- 
tion for  criminals  is  transferred  to  the  suburbs, 
to  the  small  towns  and  villages  and  to  the  open 
1  country  and  the  police  problem  in  the  rural 
sections  takes  on  a  semi-metropolitan  aspect. 
Good  roads,  the  automobile  and  the  telephone 
have  facilitated  the  business  of  thugs  and  burglars 
as  well  as  of  honest  citizens.  Said  the  district 
attorney  of  Niagara  County,  New  York,  recently, 
"Nearly  every  post  office  safe  in  Western  New 
York  has  been  robbed,  and  I  do  not  now  recall 
anybody  having  been  convicted  for  these  crimes. 
The  ordinary  constable  or  deputy  sheriff  can  serve 
subpoenas  and  make  a  levy  under  an  execution 
providing  he  is  feeling  well,  but  as  a  general  rule 
he  is  incapable  of  coping  with  even  a  third-class 
criminal."     Numerous  other  equally  forcible  offi- 


READJUSTMENTS  139 

cial  statements  of  the  same  tenor  have  been 
collected  by  the  New  York  Committee  on  State 
Police. 

To  cope  with  these  crimes  of  violence  and  cun- 
ning the  untrained,  politically  selected  sheriff  of 
the  typical  rural  county  is  but  sadly  equipped. 
He  is  a  temporary  elected  official  to  begin  with, 
unschooled  in  the  ways  of  criminals  and  unfamiliar 
with  any  of  the  vast  paraphernalia  of  investiga- 
tion that  go  to  make  up  a  modem  police  system. 
Certain  parts  of  the  country  moreover  have  pecu- 
liar periodical  disturbances  on  a  larger  scale  than 
criminals  operate — riots,  lynching  parties,  flood 
disasters,  strikes.  These  occasions  demand  the 
temporary  mobilizing  of  a  comparatively  large, 
well-organized  and  disciplined  force  to  handle  the 
situation  with  firmness  and  fairness.  It  is  no 
place  for  the  crude  old-fashioned  sheriff's  posse. 

At  the  present  time  it  is  the  frequent  practice 
on  such  occasions  to  call  out  the  state  militia. 
But  while  this  organization  has  often  doubtless 
rendered  effective  service,  police  duty  is  not  its 
proper  occupation.  Every  year  enlistments  fall 
far  below  the  adequate  figure  because  young  men 
in  business  and  professional  life  deem  it  obno}dous 
to  leave  their  appointed  tasks  to  do  a  professional 
policeman's  work.  In  the  discussion  of  ** pre- 
paredness" measures  it  has  frequently  been 
proposed  that  the  militia  be  enlisted  solely  for 
national  defense  and  that  a  special  fighting  force 
be  developed  for  state  police  duty.     If  such  a 


I40  THE  COUNTY 

force  were  organized  on  a  permanent  basis  it 
would  practically  relieve  the  sheriff  and  the 
constables  from  police  duty. 

A  model  for  such  a  force  is  found  in  the  Penn- 
sylvania State  Constabulary,  which  has  been  in 
existence  since  1902.  This  is  an  organization  of 
two  hundred  and  twenty  mounted  policemen 
formed  into  four  companies  under  a  superin- 
tendent of  police.  Every  year  it  patrols  660,000 
miles  of  rural  roads  and  not  only  keeps  the  rural 
sections  singularly  free  from  criminals  but  has 
performed  numerous  other  distinctive  services. 
It  has  prevented  disastrous  fires  and  mine  explo- 
sions, quelled  riots,  stopped  illegal  hunting  and 
maintained  quarantine  during  epidemics  of  di- 
sease. It  was  this  constabulary  that  handled  the 
tremendous  crowds  at  the  Gettysburg  Centennial 
in  1913.  The  force  is  made  up  of  picked  men  who 
are  taught  the  laws  of  the  commonwealth  and 
schooled  to  enforce  them  with  absolute  impartial- 
ity against  offenders  of  all  classes.  It  has  been 
free  from  politics  and  has  won  the  respect  of  all 
classes  of  the  people. 

In  the  domain  of  highways'  the  county,  under 
the  pressure  of  the  good-roads  movement,  has 
been  rapidly  yielding  its  control  to  the  central 
government.      The    good-roads    problem    simply 

*  This  discussion  of  highway  matters  is  based  principally  upon 
a  monograph  by  J.  E.  Pennybacker,  Chief  of  Road  Economics, 
Office  of  Public  Roads,  Department  of  Agriculture.  Y.  B. 
Separate,  19 14. 


READJUSTMENTS  141 

outgrew  the  county.  It  could  not  be  handled 
efficiently  through  so  small  a  unit.  In  the  course 
of  railway  development  everywhere  the  old  lines 
of  tributary  traffic  by  wagon  road  from  the  farms 
to  the  shipping  centers  were  greatly  modified. 
Their  objective  point  came  to  have  no  particular 
reference  to  the  boundaries  of  the  county  or  the 
location  of  the  county  seat.  Traffic  from  one 
county  destroyed  the  roads  of  another  without 
supplying  any  compensatory  advantages  to  the 
latter.  Modem  road  construction,  particularly 
since  the  advent  of  the  automobile,  created  techni- 
cal engineering  problems  far  beyond  the  capacity 
of  the  local  officials  to  solve.  Without  the  aid  of 
better  equipped  agencies  than  a  unit  so  small  as 
the  county  could  afford  most  of  the  rural  roads 
of  the  county  must  have  gone  to  rack  and  ruin, 
to  say  nothing  of  their  meeting  the  demands  of 
present  day  traffic.  But  forty- two  state  govern- 
ments, up  to  191 5,  had  come  to  the  rescue,  either  by 
supplying  financial  aid,  authorizing  the  employ- 
ment of  convict  labor  or  by  furnishing  expert 
advice  founded  upon  scientific  research.  Up  to 
the  year  19 14  onty  Florida,  Indiana,  Mississippi, 
South  Carolina,  Tennessee  and  Texas  had  made 
no  provision  whatever  for  state  participation  in 
road  work. 

But  the  significant  point  to  be  noted  here  is  the 
strong  tendency  to  take  entirely  out  of  the  hands 
of  the  county  the  whole  burden,  financial  and 
otherwise,  of  the  great  trunk  lines  and  in  many 


142  THE  COUNTY 

cases  to  impofe  standards  and  specifications  for 
construction  even  where  the  county  does  its  own 
road  building.  Thus,  Massachusetts,  up  to  Janu- 
ary I,  1 9 14,  had  completed  more  than  one  thou- 
sand miles  of  state  highway  through  the  issuance 
of  state  bonds  and  the  levying  of  automobile 
taxes,  the  counties  being  required  to  refund  the 
state  twenty-five  per  cent,  of  the  cost  of  construc- 
tion. New  York  established  a  highway  depart- 
ment in  1898  and  has  authorized  bond  issues  of 
$100,000,000  for  a  state  system  of  roads  which 
has  already  reached  an  advanced  stage  of  con- 
struction. Virginia,  Ohio,  Maryland  and  Cali- 
fornia have  made  much  progress  toward  a  state 
road  system,  the  California  plan  calling  for  two 
main  highways  running  the  length  of  the  state 
and  a  system  of  laterals  connecting  the  county 
seats  with  the  trunk  lines.  The  state  of  Iowa  has 
gone  so  far  as  to  place  all  road  work  in  the  state 
under  the  direction  of  its  highway  department. 

And  so,  the  dominion  of  the  county  is  being 
invaded  at  sundry  points.  The  unification  of  the 
judiciary  (which  it  must  be  admitted  has  not  yet 
progressed  very  far),  the  gradual  transfer  of  the 
charity  and  correctional  work  to  the  state  govern- 
ment, the  establishment  of  a  state  police  and  the 
more  imminent  abridgment  of  county  control 
over  highways — these  movements  unmistakably 
and  definitely  seem  to  point  the  ultimate  displace- 
ment of  the  county  as  an  important  agent  of 
public  service  in  particular  fields. 


READJUSTMENTS  143 

_But  that  is  but  one  side  of  the  story.  For  while, 
on  the  one  hand,  the  importance  of  the  county  is 
threatened  in  particular  fields  there  seems  to  be 
before  it  in  other  directions  a  career  of  greater 
usefulness  than  ever  before.  This  present  obser- 
vation, however,  applies  only  to  those  states 
where  the  town  or  township  has  come  in  for  par- 
ticular emphasis,  or  where,  as  will  be  suggested 
later  in  the  discussion,  the  principle  of  federation 
may  be  adopted  by  a  number  of  contiguous  mu- 
nicipalities as  a  step  toward  consolidation  of  local 
governments. 

In  a  number  of  states  where  the  New  England 
influence  has  been  strong  the  town  is  frequently 
the  unit  (though  not  always  exclusively)  for  the 
custodianship  of  certain  records  such  as  deeds 
and  mortgages,  for  public  health  administration, 
for  commitment  of  paupers,  for  road  construction 
and  maintenance  or  for  tax  assessment  and 
collection. 

The  relation  of  the  county  to  the  town  in  these 
concerns  is  analogous  to  that  of  the  state  to  county 
in  such  matters  as  the  care  of  the  insane  and  the 
control  of  trunk-line  highways.  It  is  a  question 
of  finding  a  unit  large  enough  (and  not  too  large) 
to  fit  the  problem  in  hand.  PubHc  health,  for 
example,  is  largely  a  matter  of  controlling  sources 
of  disease  in  milk  and  water  supply,  which  under 
modem  methods  of  living  are  usually  much  more 
widely  distributed  than  the  area  which  is  served. 
Effective  control  in  that  case  would  simply  mean 


144  '  THE  COUNTY 

control  through  a  unit  larger  than  the  town,  to 
wit:  the  county,  unless  control  on  a  still  wider 
scale  should  prove  feasible.  Similarly  in  the 
matter  of  police  protection:  the  town  constable 
is  an  anachronism  in  these  days  of  rapid  transit. 
The  county  is  a  more  appropriate  police  unit 
than  the  town.  Town  custodianship  of  records 
means  duplication,  lack  of  standards  and  waste. 
Town  commitment  of  paupers  to  the  county 
almshouse  or  poor  farm  is  a  temptation  on  the 
part  of  the  smaller  locality  to  shift  its  burdens  on 
to  the  shoulders  of  the  whole  county. 

When  it  comes  to  highway  construction,  the  high 
technical  skill  which  needs  to  go  into  the  work  is  a 
commodity  which  comes  too  high  for  a  town  and 
even,  as  we  have  pointed  out,  for  the  county. 

But  the  most  serious  misfits  of  town  govern- 
ment are  the  local  agents  of  tax  administration. 
Wherever  the  town  is  the  smallest  tax  unit  not 
only  is  the  number  of  officials  needlessly  multi- 
plied, but  diverse  standards  of  property  valuation 
are  set  up  and  competition  is  resorted  to  between 
towns  with  a  view  to  escaping  their  just  share  of 
taxation.  Without  a  dissenting  voice  the  recog- 
nized tax  experts  of  the  county  are  firmly  of  the 
opinion  that  the  town  as  a  unit  of  tax  assessment 
and  tax  collection  must  give  way  to  the  county. 

And  so,  the  readjustments  that  are  working  out 
the  ultimate  destiny  of  the  county  are  not  wholly 
of  a  negative  sort.  It  is  not  all  a  matter  of  trim- 
ming the  county's  wings. 


CHAPTER  XV 

COUNTY  HOME  RULE 

Some  counties  indeed  are  awakening  to  a  sense 
of  their  identity  and  are  asserting  with  much  vigor 
their  abiHty  to  organize  and  manage  many  con- 
cerns which  have  been  conspicuously  mishandled 
either  by  the  state  authorities  or  by  the  smaller 
local  units. 

Nowhere  has  the  need  for  "readjustment**  to 
meet  this  demand  been  more  keenly  appreciated 
than  in  California.  Elsewhere  in  these  chapters 
we  have  referred  to  the  great  diversity  in  the 
underlying  social  and  physical  conditions  in  that 
state.  To  meet  this  situation  fifty-six  "general" 
laws  (that  were  not  general  at  all)  had  been 
enacted,  for  as  many  counties.  No  other  method 
of  individualizing  county  government  had  been 
resorted  to  until  191 1.  At  that  time  the  progress- 
ive leaders  in  the  legislature  wished  to  bring 
government,  all  down  the  line,  into  sympathy 
with  standards  of  simplicity  and  efficiency  that 
were  then  beginning  to  be  accepted.  For  a  time 
county  government  seemed  to  present  an  insuper- 
able obstacle :  how  could  a  state  system  be  devised 
^«  145 


146  THE  COUNTY 

that  would  square  with  these  new  ideas?  Then 
it  was  remembered  that  for  upwards  of  thirty 
years  the  cities  of  Cahfornia  had  been  determining 
for  themselves  what  municipal  officers  should  be 
chosen,  how  they  should  be  chosen  and  what 
powers  they  should  exercise.  California  was  a 
pioneer  in  municipal  home  rule  and  the  system 
had  worked  pretty  much  to  everybody's  satis- 
faction. 

Inasmuch,  however,  as  counties  have  much  more 
intimate  relations  with  the  state  government  it 
seemed  impracticable  to  allow  them  quite  so  large 
discretion  as  the  cities,  in  determining  the  powers 
they  should  enjoy.  And  so,  the  California  amend- 
ment gives  the  people  of  the  county  freedom  to 
determine  the  form  and  detail  of  the  county  or- 
ganization, subject  to  the  proviso  that  each  of 
the  necessary  county  officers  such  as  sheriff, 
district  attorney,  etc.,  must  be  maintained  to  exe- 
cute the  state  law  within  the  county.  Members 
of  the  county  board  of  supervisors  must  be  elected, 
but  not  necessarily  by  districts.  All  other  county 
officers,  except  the  superior  court  judges,  may  be 
either  elective  or  appointive  in  a  manner  set  forth 
in  a  county  charter. 

The  procedure  by  which  California  counties 
may  take  advantage  of  the  home-rule  privilege 
is  as  follows:  A  board  of  fifteen  freeholders  is 
elected,  either  in  pursuance  of  an  ordinance 
adopted  by  three  fifths  of  the  members  of  the 
board  of  supervisors,  or  of  a  petition  signed  by 


COUNTY  HOME  RULE  147 

fifteen  per  centum  of  the  qualified  electors  of  the 
county,  computed  upon  the  total  number  of 
votes  cast  therein  for  all  candidates  for  governor 
at  the  last  preceding  gubernatorial  election. 
Within  one  hundred  and  twenty  days  from  the 
time  their  election  is  declared  the  board  of  free- 
holders must  prepare  and  cause  to  be  published 
a  charter  for  the  government  of  the  county. 
Within  sixty  days  after  its  first  publication  (un- 
less a  general  election  intervenes)  the  charter  is 
submitted  to  the  voters  of  the  county  for  adoption 
or  rejection.  It  is  then  submitted  to  the  legisla- 
ture at  its  next  session  for  approval  or  rejection 
but  not  for  amendment.  But  since  a  California 
legislature  in  thirty-seven  years  has  never  been 
known  to  reject  a  charter  or  a  charter  amendment 
of  a  city,  the  outlook  for  a  policy  of  county  non- 
interference would  seem  to  be  good. 

It  may  be,  however,  that  the  California  plan 
is  too  radical  a  change  for  states  which  have 
not  yet  granted  freedom  to  their  cities.  A  less 
sweeping  way  of  affording  relief  from  iron-clad 
forms  of  government  is  found  in  the  statutes  of 
Illinois,  New  Jersey  and  other  states,  through 
which  it  is  possible  for  any  county  to  pass  from 
one  prescribed  form  to  another  by  petition  and 
popular  election.  Similar  laws  are  in  operation 
in  a  number  of  states  permitting  cities  to  adopt 
the  commission  plan,  and  in  four  states  the  cities 
may  make  a  choice  between  three  or  four  forms 
under  an  optional  law. 


148  THE  COUNTY 

Following  the  passage  of  such  a  city  law  in 
New  York,  the  County  Government  Association  ^ 
and  the  official  commissions  on  the  reorganization, 
of  government  in  Nassau  and  Westchester  coun- 
ties memorialized  the  constitutional  convention 
of  1 91 5  for  amendments  which  would  authorize 
the  counties  to  adopt  a  plan  of  organization  suited 
to  their  local  needs.  These  associations  formu- 
lated the  question  of  county  adjustment  for  "up- 
state" New  York  counties  in  these  words: 

First :  That  the  Legislature  should  be  required 
by  the  Constitution  to  provide  optional  plans 
of  county  government,  any  one  of  which  any  ' 
county  may  adopt  by  a  vote  of  the  people. 

Second:  That  the  Legislature  should  in  such 
plans  confer  upon  the  Board  of  Supervisors  or 
other    governing    body    in    such    county    such   ' 
powers  of  local  legislation  as  the  Legislature 
may  deem  expedient. 

Third:  That  the  Constitution  should  require 
that  no  such  plan  of  government  should  be 
imposed  on  any  county  .until  approved  by  the 
electors  thereof  and  that  no  amendment  to 
any  plan  of  government  should  affect  any  • 
county  which  has  previously  adopted  such  plan, 
unless  such  amendment  is  accepted  by  such 
county,  or  unless  such  amendment  relates  to 
some  state  function. 

Fourth :  That  the  Constitution  should  require 
that  all  laws  relating  to  the  government  of 
counties  should  be  general  both  in  terms  and  in 
effect,  except  that  special  or  local  laws  relating' 
to  such  government  may  be  passed,  but  shall  take 
effect  only  on  approval  of  the  county  affected. 


COUNTY  HOME  RULE  149 

The  California  amendment  has   been    put    to 
use  in  the  four  counties  of  Los  Angeles,  San  Ber-  . 
nardino,  Tehama,  and  Butte,  all  of  which  have  their  ' 
special  "home-rule"  charters.    Its  early  use  is  con- 
templated in  Alameda,  Napa  and  Santa  Barbara  - 
counties.     Since  191 1  the  scope  of  the  amendment 
has  been  broadened  so  as  to  permit  of  considerable 
latitude  in  the  consolidation  of  city  and  county 
governments.  '"*■• 

Such  is  the  counter-movement  to  centralized' 
state  control.  In  no  wise  are  the  two  in  the  least 
inconsistent,  for  the  latter  tendency  is  to  limit* 
the  subjects  in  which  the  county  acts  in  the  ca-. 
pacity  of  a  local  state, agent  while  the  former  con- 
cerns itself  simply  with  methods  of  performing 
service  under  local  popular  control. 

The  home-rule  movement,  if  it  may  so  be  indi- 
cated, is  practical  evidence  that  people  are  re- 
garding counties  as  something  more  than  mere' 
geographical  expressions.  Counties  are  thinking- 
units.  They  are  capable  of  framing  local  policies. 
Therefore  they  would  extend  their  opportunities, 
to  think  and  to  express  themselves./ 

This  idea  seems  to  be  at  the  bottom  of  the  local 
option  policy  of  the  organized  anti-lic^uor  forces 
throughout  a  great  portion  of  the  country. 
Shrewd  tactics,  of  course,  has  a  good  deal  to  do 
with  it,  for  county  and  other  forms  of  local  option 
are  but  the  thin  side  of  a  wedge  to  state-wide  and 
even  nation-wide  prohibition.  But  for  the  present 
at  least,  organizations  like  the  Anti-Saloon  League 


150  THE  COUNTY 

realize  that  counties  are  very  handy  and  conr 
venient  units  of  pubHc  sentiment  and  have  been 
instrumental  in  securing  county  option  laws  in 
many  states,  including  Idaho,  Alabama,  Ken- 
tucky, Louisiana,  Michigan,  Minnesota,  Montana, 
Oregon,  Texas.  Incidentally,  the  county  option 
plan  makes  the  public  policy  district  in  liquor 
matters  coincide  with  districts  for  enforcement, 
thus  minimizing  the  danger  of  nullification. 


CHAPTER  XVI 

CONSOLIDATION 

The  battle  cry  of  local  freedom  comes  up  loud- 
est from  urban  centers.  The  simple  reason  is 
that  the  counties  were  devised  originally  for  com- 
munities in  a  state  of  nature — a  few  people,  widely 
scattered,  all  but  oblivious  to  the  existence  or 
need  of  government.  City  communities  on  the 
other  hand  are  highly  complex,  individualized, 
differentiated  units.  Accordingly,  their  govern- 
mental garments  must  be  custom-made. 

City  governments  indeed  were  instituted  partly 
to  escape  the  strait- jacket  inflexibility  of  the 
counties.  Gradually,  as  we  have  seen,  they 
elbowed  the  county  governments  into  a  dark 
comer,  to  the  infinite  debasement  of  the  sheriff, 
the  coroner,  the  poor  master  and  the  tax  collector 
and  other  typical  accessories  of  the  county. 

But  almost  everywhere,  at  some  point  short  of 
full  county  annihilation,  the  pressure  of  the  city 
stopped.  Perhaps  it  was  the  politicians  who 
intervened,  to  save  "the  boys"  at  the  court 
house;  or  perhaps  it  was  the  feeling  that  seems 
to  have  settled  down  upon  our  political  thinking, 
that  counties,  like  death  and  taxes,  have  to  be. 

151 


152  THE  COUNTY 

Within  very  recent  years,  bold  spirits  in  some  of 
the  metropohtan  centers  have  begun  to  feel  that 
the  county,  in  their  particular  communities,  was 
a  public  nuisance  and  have  been  ''going"  for  it. 
Thus  the  New  York  Times,  when  the  New  York 
Constitutional  Convention  was  in  session  in  191 5, 
delivered  not  a  few  strokes  for  a  proposition  to 
abolish  existing  boundaries  of  the  sixty-one 
counties  and  substitute  therefor  eight  adminis- 
trative districts.  Cleveland,  Ohio,  reformers  would 
like  to  have  that  city  divorce  itself  from  the 
rural  part  of  Cuyahoga  County.  In  Rochester, 
a  recent  survey  has  suggested  a  similar  course 
with  reference  to  Monroe  County.  Studies  have 
also  been  made  recently  (19 16)  by  the  City  Club 
of  Milwaukee.  A  member  of  the  city  commission 
in  Jersey  City  has. recently  caused  to  be  passed 
in  the  legislature  a  bill  providing  for  a  vote  on 
consolidation  of  municipalities  in  Hudson  County 
on  a  sort  of  borough  plan.  In  Cincinnati  the 
question  of  consolidation  of  the  city  with  Hamil- 
ton County  was  recently  opened,  apparently  for 
the  first  time,  in  newspaper  discussions.  In  the 
1 91 6  New  York  legislature  there  was  under  discus- 
sion a  bill  extending  control  of  the  board  of  esti- 
mate and  apportionment  in  New  York  City  over 
the  employees  of  the  five  counties  within  the  city. 
This  was  in  line  with  a  recent  report  by  the  cham- 
berlain and  the  commissioner  of  accounts  of  New 
York  City  submitted  to  the  Constitutional  Con- 
vention, which  pointed  out  the  advantages  of  the 


CONSOLIDATION  153 

abolition  of  counties  in  New  York  City  and  the 
transfer  of  their  functions  to  the  control  of  the  city 
authorities.  St.  Louis  City  actually  accomplished 
the  fact  in  1876  when  it  separated  from  St.  Louis 
County.  Baltimore  and  a  number  of  Virginia  cities 
have  long  been  separated  (for  historical  rather 
than  reformatory  reasons,  however,)  from  the  sur- 
rounding rural  or  suburban  territory. 

In  practice,  the  process  of  relocation  of  county 
boundary  lines  is  very  much  like  the  reversing  of 
a  long  series  of  court  decisions.  Local  tradition 
and  the  gradual  crystallizing  of  the  interests  of 
local  politicians  militate  powerfully  to  maintain 
the  status  quo.  And,  yet,  for  all  that,  the  shifting 
of  boundary  lines  must  inevitably  come,  if  local 
governments  are  to  meet  their  obligations. 

Just  where  and  by  what  criteria  the  new  Hnes 
are  to  be  laid  is  no  easy  question  to  decide;  our 
metropolitan  centers  are  of  such  various  origins 
and  in  such  differing  degrees  of  development. 
The  committee  on  City-Oounty  Consolidation  of 
the  National  Municipal  League  in  a  preliminary 
report  rendered  in  191 6  seeks  to  classify  the  urban 
communities  in  this  fashion: 


"The  simplest  type  of  urban  county  is  that 
in  which  the  geographical  limits  of  the  two  lo- 
cal units  are  identical  and  the  population  has 
grown  up  out  of  a  single  well-defined  histori- 
cal nucleus.  Among  other  communities  there 
would  fall  within  this  classification   the  cities 


154  THE  COUNTY 

of  Philadelphia,  Denver,  San  Francisco  and 
Baltimore  and  eighteen  cities  in  Virginia. 

"A  second  type  is  that  in  which  a  single  city 
fu;rnishes  an  overwhelming  proportion  of  the 
population,  but  occupies  a  relatively  small 
part  of  an  otherwise  rural  territory.  Among 
the  cities  which  fall  in  this  classification  are 
Buffalo,  Milwaukee  and  Cleveland. 

*'The  third  type  is  that  in  which  a  city  of 
predominating  size  and  importance  is  surrounded 
by  a  number  of  smaller  but  vigorous  munici- 
palities which  have  grown  up  not  as  suburbs  of 
the  main  city,  but  out  of  independent  historical 
beginnings.  Cases  in  point  are  the  two  largest 
counties  of  New  Jersey,  Hudson  and  Essex. 

"A  fourth  type  is  one  which  contains  several 
strong  municipalities,  no  one  of  which  has 
achieved  a  position  of  undisputed  leadership. 
Alameda  County,  Cal.,  which  contains  the 
cities  of  Oakland,  Alameda  and  Berkeley  will 
serve  to  illustrate. ' 

"The  most  advanced  type  of  the  city-county 
problem  involves  the  adjustment  of  the  politi- 
cal to  the  physical  and  social  unity  of  a  great 
urban  area,  regardless  of  established  boundaries 
of  either  cities  or  counties.  The  metropoHtan 
districts  of  New  York  and  Massachusetts  are 
the  most  conspicuous  illustrations  of  this 
problem." 


The  key  to  reconstruction  is  the  same  in  every 
case:  simplification.  Eliminate  duplication  of 
civil  divisions;  substitute  one  government  for  two 
or  many  (in  the  case  of  Chicago,  twenty-two!). 
There  is  a  good  deal  of  logic  in  a  separate  local 


CONSOLIDATION  155 

government  to  serve  as  a  state  agency.  But 
everywhere  the  people  have  waived  the  right  or 
privilege  of  a  logical  government  when  they  have 
illogically  insisted  upon  selecting  their  officers 
locally.  When  the  district  attorney,  for  instance, 
is  chosen  by  the  electors  of  the  county  he  may  be 
legally  the  state's  representative  but  he  is  practi- 
cally a  local  officer  in  very  much  the  same  sense 
as  the  mayor.  Then  why,  for  legal  fiction's  sake, 
distinguish  between  the  city  and  the  county? 

One  American  city-county  has  not  only  seenN 
the  inefficiency  and  hypocrisy  of  the  dual  system 
but  has  actually  wiped  out  the  last  semblance  of 
distinction  between  the  two  divisions.  The  story 
is  told  in  legal  form  in  Article  XX  of  the  Colorado 
constitution : 


"The  municipal  corporation  known  as  the 
city  of  Denver,  and  all  municipal  corporations 
and  that  part  of  the  quasi-municipal  corporation 
known  as  the  County  of  Arapahoe,  in  the  state 
of  Colorado,  included  into  the  exterior  bounda- 
ries of  the  said  city  of  Denver,  as  the  same  shall 
be  bounded  when  this  amendment  takes  effect, 
are  hereby  consolidated  and  are  hereby  de- 
clared to  be  a  single  body  politic  and  corporate, 
by  the  name  of  the  city  and  county  of  Denver." 

By  this  same  amendment  the  city  and  county 
were  declared  to  be  a  single  judicial  district  of  the 
state,  and  county  officers  were  disposed  of  by 
prescribing  that 


156  THE  COUNTY 

"the.  then  mayor,  auditor,  engineer,  council 
(which  shall  perform  the  duties  of  a  board  of 
county  commissioners),  police  magistrate,  chief 
of  police  and  boards,  of  the  city  of  Denver  shall 
become  respectively,  said  officers  of  the  city 
and  county  of  Denver,  and  said  engineer  shall  be 
ex-Ojfficio  surveyor  and  said  chief  of  police  shall 
be  ex-officio  sheriff  of  the  city  and  county  of 
Denver ;  and  the  then  clerk  and  ex-officio  recorder, 
treasurer,  assessor  and  coroner  of  the  county 
of  Arapahoe  and  the  justices  of  the  peace  and 
constables  holding  office  within  the  city  of 
Denver,  shall  become,  respectively,  said  officers 
of  the  city  and  county  of  Denver,  and  the 
district  attorney  shall  be  ex-officio  attorney 
of  the  city  and  county  of  Denver." 

In  1 91 3  an  amendment  to  the  Denver  charter, 
adopted  by  popular  vote,  provided  for  the  com- 
mission form  of  government  with  the  usual  divi- 
sions of  administration  into  five  departments 
respectively  of  Property,  Finance,  Safety,  Im- 
provements and  Social  Welfare.  To  some  one  of 
these  commissionerships  was  assigned  jurisdiction 
over  each  of  the  several  county  officers,  as  appro- 
priately as  the  conditions  would  permit. 

The  process  of  amalgamation  was  made  com- 
plete when  in  May,  1916,  Denver  abandoned  the 
commission  plan  and  made  the  mayor  chief  ex- 
ecutive of  the  county  as  well  as  of  the  city,  with 
appropriate  appointing  power. 

In  New  York,  consolidation  has  extended  to 
most   of   the   fiscal   functions,   tending   to   leave 


CONSOLIDATION  157 

intact  only  so  much  of  the  original  county  struc- 
ture as  is  incidental  to  the  administration  of  jus- 
tice, including  the  courts  themselves,  the  sheriff 
in  his  capacity  of  court  executive  and  the  court 
clerks.  The  functions  of  the  county  treasurer 
have  been  transferred  to  the  city  chamberlain 
and  the  comptroller,  and  the  department  of  taxes 
and  assessments  has  been  attached  to  the  city 
organization.  The  separate  governing  bodies  of 
the  five  counties  have  been  swept  away  and  their 
powers  transferred  to  the  city  Board  of  Estimate 
and  Apportionment  and  Board  of  Aldermen. 
New  York  City  also  has  not  only  taken  over  the 
function  of  public  charities,  but  its  Department  of 
Corrections  has  been  steadily  encroaching  upon 
the  prerogatives  of  the  sheriffs.  The  future  issue 
of  city  consolidation  there  is  accordingly  reduced 
to  a  matter  of  abolishing  the  five  counties  and 
transferring  their  functions  to  officers  under  city 
control  and  making  the  independent  elective 
officers  such  as  the  sheriff,  district  attorney,  clerk 
and  register'  appointive  by  either  city  or  state 
authorities. 

^  In  spite  of  much  that  remains  to  be  done, 
consolidation  has  proceeded  to  an  advanced  stage 
also  in  Boston,  though  hardly  in  a  direct  line 
towards  greater  simplicity.  Before  it  became  a 
city  in  1820  a  conflict  had  arisen  as  to  the  juris- 

^  See  Hormell,  O.  C.  "Boston's  County  Problems,"  Annals 
American  Academy  of  Political  and  Social  Science^  May,  19 13, 
pp.  134  et  seq. 


158  THE  COUNTY 

diction  of  the  town,  and  of  the  court  of  sessions 
for  Suffolk  County,  respecting  highways  and  taxa- 
tion. The  legislature  thereupon  abolished  the 
court  and  transferred  its  administrative  functions 
to  the  mayor  and  council  of  Boston.  Boston, 
however,  is  not  geographically  identical  with 
Suffolk  County,  since  the  latter  for  the  purposes 
of  the  administration  of  justice,  includes  the  city 
of  Chelsea  and  the  towns  of  Revere  and  Winthrop. 
Boston  has  the  title  to  all  the  real  and  personal 
property  of  Suffolk  County  but  also  pays  the 
entire  expense  of  its  administration.  The  treasurer 
and  auditor  of  accounts  of  the  city  act  in  similar 
capacities  for  the  county  of  Suffolk.  But  there 
are  seven  elective  county  officials  and  several,  vir- 
tually independent  of  each  other,  who  are  chosen 
by  the  governor  or  the  justice  of  the  Superior 
Court. 

This  situation  as  to  the  actual  political  Boston 
is  confusing  enough.  Metropolitan  Boston  on 
the  other  hand,  comprises  thirty-nine  municipali- 
ties situated  in  five  counties,  which  make  up  a 
compact  community  of  a  million  five  hundred 
thousand  inhabitants.  These  centers  have  every 
facility  for  communication  and  transportation. 
And  the  state  has  indeed  recognized  the  unity  of 
the  district  by  establishing  such  agencies  of 
administration  as  the  metropolitan  park  com- 
mission and  the  metropolitan  water  and  sewer 
board. 

San  Francisco  has  proceeded  so  far  as  to  have  a 


CONSOLIDATION  159 

single  governing  body  and  a  single  set  of  fiscal 
officers  for  city  and  county. 

With  this,  the  recital  of  actual  accomplishments 
toward  formal  consolidation  is  about  complete. 
The  advantages  of  consolidation  as  they  appear 
to  a  disinterested  observer  are  obvious.  But 
the  process  is  usually  difficult  in  the  extreme, 
especially  as  it  relates  to  the  equitable  distribu- 
tion of  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  parts  to  be 
consolidated.  New  York  City  only  accomplished 
this  by  assuming  the  debts  of  the  outlying  coun- 
ties and  municipaUties.  But  in  the  course  of 
nineteen  years  not  even  that  generous  concession 
has  sufficed  to  the  vigorous  local  spirit  of  Brook- 
lyn, the  Bronx,  Queens  and  Richmond. 

FEDERATION 

Where  immediate  consolidation  at  a  single  stroke 
is  out  of  the  question,  as  is  apparently  almost 
always  the  case,  a  more  easy  transition  is  sug- 
gested by  the  recommendations  of  the  City  and 
County  Government  Association  of  Alameda 
County,  California.  Realizing  that  a  powerful  lo- 
cal sentiment  in  the  outlying  territory  militated 
irresistibly  against  annexation  to  the  city  of  Oak- 
land or,  in  fact,  any  form  of  complete  organic 
union  of  the  municipalities  in  the  county,  this 
Association  has  proposed  as  the  logical  first  step 
to  a  more  economically  organized  county,  a  plan 
of  federation. 


a 


^1 

u  t 


o 

JKOU 

zg"S 

<        " 

« 

So<S 


h 


{:ociij 
5o<S 


ooo; 


i24 


So;Ou 

—  03 


5  s 


-,3 

ii 

3 

II 

a 

B 

„5 


i{ 


=  x;  ■ 


--c 


25:1 


■■'J 

rji 
1 

55; 

1 

so 

: 

•us 

Ik 

—  ?! 

Ha 


AXNflOO   NinOVOf  NVS 


162;  THE  COUNTY 

Under  the  proposed  plan  the  governing  body 
would  consist  of  one  councillor  from  each  of 
twenty-one  districts.  Unlike  the  present  board 
of  supervisors  in  Alameda  County,  the  new  body 
would  have  only  legislative  functions.  The  func- 
tions of  the  county,  as  a  public  corporation,  would 
be  broadened  to  include  a  number  of  interests 
which  the  municipalities  are  conceived  to  have 
in  common.  Police  protection,  for  instance,  would 
revert  from  the  cities  back  to  the  county,  where 
it  was  originally  lodged,  on  the  theory  that  crime 
thrives  in  a  certain  social  and  physical  environ- 
ment and  knows  nothing  and  cares  less  for  cor- 
porate limits.  And  inasmuch  also  as  the  ravages 
of  fire  and  disease  are  the  interests  of  a  territory 
rather  than  the  corporate  boundaries  of  a  city, 
the  control  of  these  perils  would  also  be  transferred 
to  the  county.  The  installation  of  the  plan  would 
also  result  in  the  abolishment  of  the  dual  system 
of  tax  assessment  and  tax  collection.  To  the 
smaller  units  would  be  left  jurisdiction  over  their 
more  distinctively  local  affairs  such  as  public 
works.  The  identity  of  the  individual  cities, 
which  would  be  known  as  "boroughs,"  would 
thus  remain  intact,  for  they  w^ould  retain  their 
local  governing  bodies  to  frame  strictly  local 
policies.  At  the  same  time  the  general  organiza- 
tion of  the  local  government  would  provide  for 
the  common  interests  of  the  constituent  members. 

Some  such  plan  of  federation,  as  a  transition 
step  toward  unity,  would  seem  to  commend  itself 


CONSOLIDATION  163 

to  several  important  counties  which  are  made  up 
of  communities  like  those  which  compose  Alameda 
County.  How  these  communities  in  the  face 
of  increased  cost  of  government  and  the  greater 
demands  for  public  service  are  much  longer  to 
resist  some  measures  toward  greater  organic  unity 
it  is  difficult  to  conceive. 

Even  in  the  domain  of  public  works  the  desira- 
bility of  unified  control  is  often  of  much  impor- 
tance. Thus  in  Essex  County,  N.  J.,  it  was 
discovered  as  early  as  1894  ^^^^  ^o  adequate  pro- 
vision for  a  public  park|  system  could  be  worked 
out  by  the  separate  municipalities  in  that  distinctly 
urban  county.  In  the  case  of  certain  thorough- 
fares which  ran  through  two  or  more  of  these 
cities,  it  was  highly  desirable  to  effect  some  sort 
of  a  continuous,  uniform  improvement.  Certain 
lowlands,  also,  were  found  to  lie  partly  in  one 
municipality  and  partly  in  another,  so  that  neither 
city  could  act  to  advantage  independently.  Some 
of  the  cities  had  no  available  space  for  park  pur- 
poses, while  others  had  tl;ie  space,  without  the 
resources  or  the  need  for  developing  it.  From 
every  point  of  view  the  obvious  course  to  pursue 
led  to  a  general  consolidation  of  park  interests, 
and  a  comprehensive  well-balanced  park  plan, 
county-wide  in  its  scope.  And  so  there  was 
created  a  county  park  commission  which  has 
exclusive  jurisdiction  over  park  developments  and 
maintenance.  It  is  noteworthy  however  that  this 
commission,  as  we  have  already  indicated,  was 

ZI 


i64  THE  COUNTY 

not  made  an  integral  part  of  the^  existing  county 
government  but  a  separate  corporation;  the  heads 
of  this  new  department  of  government  were  made 
appointive  by  the  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  in 
order  that  politics  might  be  eliminated  from  its 
control.  Had  the  metropolitan  area  been  under 
a  single  municipal  control,  no  such  complication 
would  have  been  necessary.  The  county  govern- 
ment was  deemed  unfit  to  represent  the  unity  of 
interest  throughout  the  several  communities 
when  an  important  nev/  undertaking  was  under 
consideration. 

Of  the  realization  of  the  idea  of  the  metro- 
politan unification  under  county  control  the  Lon- 
don County  Council^  is  the  world's  most  strik- 
ing and  instructive  example.  London,  through 
the  centuries,  as  some  of  our  American  cities 
have  done  in  a  lifetime,  had  grown  from  a  mul- 
titude of  small  independent  local  communities 
into  a  single,  continuous  metropolitan  district. 
However,  the  constituent  units,  of  which  the 
ancient  city  of  London  is  but  one,  retained  their 
historic  identities  and  clung  to  their  historic 
institutions.  In  this  peculiar  way  London  per- 
haps resembles  the  metropolitan  district  of  New 
York  or  Boston  or  Essex  County  in  New  Jersey. 
From  time  to  time  new  units  of  administration 
were  laid  down  to  correspond  to  modern  needs, 
until  the  system  of  local  government  was  com- 
plexity itself.     In  1855,  Parliament  took  the  first 

^  See  Munro,  Government  of  European  Cities,  pp.  345  et.  seq. 


CONSOLIDATION  165 

step  toward  adjusting  this  situation,  creating  the 
Metropolitan  Board  of  Works  which,  in  the 
thirty-three  years  of  its  life,  was  responsible  for 
much  of  the  city's  physical  improvement.  But 
corruption  and  scandal  entered  its  ranks  and  it 
was  legislated  out  of  existence.  The  London 
County  Council  was  then  established  with  a  mem- 
bership composed  of  one  hundred  and  eighteen 
councillors,  two  members^  being  chosen  from  each 
of  the  fifty-seven  "parliamentary  boroughs'*  or 
election  districts  and  four  from  the  city  of  London. 
From  within  or  without  its  own  membership  the 
councillors  select  nineteen  aldermen  who  serve 
for  a  six-year  term.  Through  its  committees 
the  Council  gets  into  touch  with  its  various  prob- 
lems of  the  county,  while  engineering,  medical, 
financial  and  other  experts  are  held  responsible 
for  actual  administration.  A  ''clerk"  who  is 
chosen  by  the  Council  is  in  fact  the  coordinator 
of  the  whole  system,  somewhat  in  the  manner  of 
a  city  manager  in  the  United  States.  A  comp- 
troller serves  as  the  fiscal  agent  of  the  Council. 

Upon  the  county  of  London  thus  organized  are 
imposed  many  of  the  functions  which  in  America 
are  almost  universally  entrusted  to  cities :  extensive 
authority  over  public  health,  all  matters  relating 
to  fire  protection,  all  metropolitan  street  improve- 
ment projects,  the  construction  and  maintenance 
of  bridges  that  cross  the  Thames,  the  administra- 
tion of  the  building  laws  and  the  maintenance  of 
tenement  houses.     The  Council  has  also  limited 


1 66  THE  COUNTY 

powers  over  what  we  in  this  country  term  "pub- 
lic utilities";  it  has  power  to  establish  technical 
schools  and  to  build  and  maintain  parks  and 
recreation  centers.  Its  financial  powers,  while 
subject  in  their  exercise  to  the  control  of  the 
Home  Office,  are  comprehensive. 

Nor  is  the  county  of  London  but  a  city  by 
another  name.  The  metropolitan  boroughs  have 
their  separate  identity  and  a  very  real  authority, 
including  a  certain  control  over  public  health  and 
public  lighting.  In  any  conflict  between  the 
boroughs  and  the  county  the  Home  Office  acts  as 
the  final  arbiter. 

London  county  has  a  record  of  which  it  has 
good  reason  to  be  proud.  To  its  credit  it  has  a 
long  list  of  mighty  public  works,  conceived  and 
executed  in  a  spirit  of  public  service.  Apparently 
neither  graft  nor  the  spoils  system  have  obtained  a 
foothold.  Here  is  a  county  which  has  become  so 
conspicuous  and  interesting  to  its  citizens  that  they 
form  themselves  into  local  political  parties,  founded 
upon  genuine  differences  of  opinion  and  policy 
to  make  their  citizenship  felt  in  its  government. 
In  the  seats  of  the  governing  body  sit,  not  the 
typical  office  seeker  to  which  we  are  accustomed 
in  America,  but  men  of  the  influence  and  ability 
of  Lord  Rosebery,  afterwards  the  prime  minister 
of  England,  and  Sir  John  Lubbock. 

All  of  which  would  seem  to  go  to  prove  that  even 
at  this  late  date,  the  county  is  capable  of  a  very 
honorable  service,  if  it  is  taken  seriously. 


CONSOLIDATION  167 

The  whole  problem  is  of  utmost  importance  to 
the  future  of  American  cities.  Aside  from  the 
obvious  economies  of  a  single  local  government  as 
opposed  to  two  or  more,  it  seems  essential  that 
the  future  development  of  large  centers  of  popula- 
tion should  not  be  hampered  by  conflicting  policies 
of  a  double  or  multiple  system  of  local  govern- 
ments. It  is  obvious,  moreover,  that  perils  which 
continually  threaten  the  population  of  urban 
communities,  such  as  fire,  crime  and  contagious 
diseases,  constitute  unified  problems  which  are 
co-extensive  with  congested  areas.  It  would 
seem  essential  that  the  control  of  these  perils 
should  be  a  unified  one  and  that  too  much  reliance 
should  not  be  placed  upon  a  spirit  of  cooperation 
between  different  units. 


CHAPTER  XVII 

RECONSTRUCTION:      PRINCIPLES,     PRECEDENTS  AND 

PROPOSALS 

We  have  been  at  some  pains  to  put  the  county 
into  right  relationships.  Ideally,  it  is  to  be  a  super- 
vised local  division  of  the  state  administration 
(such  supervision  to  insure  strict  accountability 
but  to  be  unobstructive) ;  it  is  to  be  relieved  by 
the  state  of  not  a  few  incompatible,  back-breaking 
burdens;  it  is  to  •  have  (with  some  necessary 
limitations)  a  free  hand  in  making  over  its  internal 
organization  for  whatever  obligations  of  public 
service  may  be  laid  upon  it  in  the  future.  In  some 
respects  its  greatest  service  is  to  consist  in  receding 
entirely  from  public  service,  while  in  other  respects 
its  importance  should  be  greatly  enhanced. 

Practically,  these  external  adjusting  movements 
will  proceed  concurrently,  with  varying  speed, 
according  as  the  need  for  the  one  or  the  other  may 
exist  or  be  recognized.  Their  full  fruition  will 
still  leave  the  county,  within  its  restricted  sphere, 
^'  with  a  .very  distinct  and  honorable  body  of  func- 
tions to  perform.  And  for  this,  the  county,  now 
so  largely  an  unfit  instrument  of  a  self-governing, 

i68 


RECONSTRUCTION:  PRINCIPLES       169 

self-respecting  community,  must  be  made  over 
from  within. 

The  basic  form.ula  of  reconstruction  is  not  far  to 
seek.  In  every  state  the  forward  looking  part  of 
the  citizenry  which  interests  itself  in  better  govern- 
ment for  long  toyed  with  the  theory  of  ''checks 
and  balances,"  which  might  be  denominated  for 
popular  purposes  as  "safety  via  complication." 
Past  generations  put  a  premium  on  ingenious 
political  devices.  Just  as  to  some  people  medicine 
which  is  not  bitter  is  not  efficacious,  so  to  the  old 
school  of  political  reformers,  government  w^as 
dangerous  if  it  could  be  seen  through  and  under- 
stood. But  ingenuity  and  complexity  in  city 
government  "came  high."  The  cost  of  them  was 
"conspicuous  failure."  In  the  end  the  people 
rebelled  and  the  end  of  the  old  way  of  thinking 
about  government  w^as  in  sight.  Witness:  the 
movements  of  those  cities  which  since  1901  have 
so  cheerfully  though  so  thoughtfully  "scrapped" 
the  historic  dogma  by  the  act  of  adopting  the 
"commission"  plan.  Ingenious,  complicated,  in- 
efficient, corrupt,  city  governments  have  given 
way  literally  by  the  hundreds  to  a  new  system,  the 
corner-stone  principle  of  v/hich  is  simplicity:  one 
set  of  officials  to  elect  and  watch;  one  place  to  go 
to  get  things  done;  one  source  to  which  to  direct 
criticism  when  things  go  wrong. 

In  a  word,  the  Short  Ballot,  in  its  fullest  im- 
plication. It  is  not  simply  that  there  should  be 
few  officers  to  elect.     County  candidates  are  noo 


170  THE  COUNTY 

especially  obscure  to  rural  voters  and  the  ballots 
in  the  country  districts  are  not  often  absurdly 
long.  The  farmer  probably  makes  a  better  job  of 
it  when  it  comes  to  making  up  his  ticket  than  any 
other  class  of  citizen.  It  is  also  necessary  that 
**  those  officers  should  be  elective  which  are  impor- 
tant enough  to  attract  and  deserve  examination,'* 
^  that  is,  officers  who  stand  at  the  sources  of  public 
policy — not  sheriffs  or  coroners  or  county  clerks; 
not  officers  who  simply  follow  out  a  statutory 
routine,  but  those  who  are  supposed  to  lay  out 
programs  of  county  action. 

And  then,  the  Short  Ballot  connotes  unification 
of  powers.  For  what  does  it  avail  to  watch,  to^ 
criticize  a  single  set  of  officers  if  all  the  while  the 
really  important  work  of  the  county  is  performed 
and  the  really  important  damage  is  committed 
by  the  officials  who  are  obscure  and  therefore 
unwatched? 

County  government,  as  it  stands,  is  the  very 
personification  of  non-conformity  to  these  approved 
principles  of  political  organization.  Starting, 
therefore,  at  the  base  of  an  ideal  structure,  let  us 
proceed  to  the  task  of  reconstruction. 

Under  ideal  home-rule  conditions  the  county 
will  have  been  brought  face  to  face  with  the 
obligation  to  stand  on  its  own  feet.  It  will  look 
about  for  appropriate  means  to  redeem  that  obli- 
gation. The  electorate  will  be  made  responsible 
for  its  collective  conduct  by  virtue  of  accurate 
representation     in     the     county's     council.     Re- 


RECONSTRUCTION:  PRINCIPLES       171 

sponsibility  will  first  be  secured  in  the  very  make- 
up of  the  governing  body,  which  is  the  source  of 
power  in  any  popular  government.  No  stereo- 
typed uniform  plan  of  organization  will  do;  no 
slavish  copying  of  the  "New  England"  type,  or 
the  "southern"  type:  counties  differ  too  widely 
for  that.  But  natural  and  legitimate  cleavages  of 
public  opinion  will  be  recognized  and  represented. 
Minor  geographical  divisions  which  have  a  distinct 
identity  may  be  given  a  separate  voice  in  the 
county  board,  but  if  the  county  is  a  geographical 
and  social  unit,  the  form  of  the  governing  body  will 
reflect  the  fact.  'And  if  the  county  is  coextensive 
with  a  city,  that  circumstance  will  be  given  due 
weight. 

But  the  county  board  will  be  something  more 
than  an  epitomized  electorate.  It  will  be  clothed,  j 
as  such  bodies  rarely  are,  with  the  power  not  only 
to  discover  what  the  people  want,  but  to  translate 
their  wishes  into  deeds  of  administration.  Instead 
of  working  as  now  through  alien  instruments  in 
the  person  of  independent  officials,  it  will  control 
the  operating  mechanism  of  the  county,  which  will 
be  of  its  own  selection.  Shall  we  take  away  from 
the  people  the  power  to  choose  the  sheriffs,  the 
county  clerk,  the  surveyor,  the  superintendent 
of  the  poor?  Yes,  take  away  the  selection,  but 
reinforce  their  control.  Abandon  the  separation 
of  powers?  Yes,  do  away  with  the  three-ring 
(or  perhaps  twelve-  or  twenty-ring)  circus,  and  get  js^ 
down  to  the  serious  business  of  government.     For 


172  THE  COUNTY 

» 

business  never  was  successfully  organized  except 
on  the  principle  that  the  head  controls  the  tail  and 
all  that  intervenes.  In  terms  of  law,  the  county 
board,  subject  of  course  to  state  legislative  and 
administrative  supervision,  will  exercise  all  the 
powers  of  the  corporation,  including  those  of 
appointment,  of  revenue  raising  and  of  appro- 
priation. 

A  long  step  toward  the  fulfillment  of  these 
principles  in  actual  life  has  been  taken  in  the 
county  of  Los  Angeles,  Cal.,  one  of  those  communi- 
ties in  which  the  doctrine  of  complexity  was  once 
carried  to  absurd  extremes.  But  the  new  charter 
of  this  county,  which  was  the  first  to  be  adopted^ 
under  the  home-rule  provisions  of  the  constitution, 
proceeded  in  great  measure  in  the  light  of  the 
theory  exemplified  by  the  commission  plan  in 
the  cities.  The  supervisors  are  retained  on  the 
elective  list  as  the  constitution  requires,  but  the 
county  superintendent  of  schools,  coroner,  public 
administrator,  county  clerk,  treasurer,  tax  col- 
lector, recorder  and  surveyor,  all  of  whom  were 
formerly  elected  by  the  voters,  are  now  appointed 
by  and  are  responsible  to  the  county  governing 
body,  which  is  the  board  of  supervisors.  The 
sheriff,  the  auditor,  the  assessor  and  the  district 
attorney  are  still  elective.  In  thus  extending  the 
power  of  the  board  of  supervisors,  the  charter 
framers  require  that,  with  a  few  exceptions,  the 
officers  shall  be  chosen  from  competitive  lists  on 

» November,  19 12. 


RECONSTRUCTION:  PRINCIPLES       173 

the  basis  of  merit  and  fitness.  The  fee  system  is 
abolished.  The  Los  Angeles  achievement,  while 
it  falls  far  short  of  the  measure  of  unity  which  is 
present  in  many  counties  governed  by  the  com- 
missioner system,  is  important  as  a  recent  conscious 
step  toward  greater  simplicity. 

And  now  that  we  have  perfected  a  mechanism 
for  expressing  the  general  will  of  the  people  of  the 
county,  it  remains  to  arm  the  governing  body 
more  effectively  with  the  means  for  translating 
mere  wishes  into  concrete  acts  of  administration. 
To  put  it  otherwise,  we  must  mobilize  the  operating 
departments  under  effective  leadership. 

Recall,  first,  our  statement  in  an  earlier  chapter 
that  the  county  in  the  United  States  is  almost 
universally  devoid  of  a  definite  executive  head. 
One  exception  is  the  two  first-class  counties  of 
New  Jersey  (Hudson  and  Essex)  where  until 
.recent  years  the  so-called  board  of  chosen  free- 
holders were  elected  from  districts.  Under  these 
circumstances  the  need  was  felt  for  some  agency 
to  represent  the  unity  of  interest  among  the  several 
localities,  in  the  government  of  the  county.  Ac- 
cordingly, the  office  of  supervisor  was  conceived. 
The  incumbent  is  elected  by  the  people  of  the 
county  and  has  powers  not  unlike  those  of  the 
mayor  in  many  cities.  He  is  required  ''to  be 
vigilant  and  active  in  causing  the  laws  and  ordi- 
nances of  the  county  to  be  executed  and  enforced." 
Subject  to  the  civil  service  law  he  has  power  to 
suspend   and  remove   but    not  to    appoint   sub- 


174  THE  COUNTY 

ordinates.     He  may  propose  legislation  and  veto 
resolutions. 

Fifteen  years  of  experience  have  not  commended 
this  institution  to  wider  adoption.  With  one  or 
two  exceptions  the  supervisors,  like  most  mayors 
of  cities,  have  not  been  men  of  force  or  imagination 
and  they  have  been  controlled,  apparently,  by  the 
same  political  elements  as  the  board  of  freeholders 
upon  which  they  were  supposed  to  have  served 
as  a  check. 

As  these  pages  are  being  written,  a  single  county 
in  the  West,  almost  unconsciously  it  would  seem 
and  under  influences  that  upon  the  surface  seem 
reactionary,  has  taken  one  of  the  longest  progres- 
sive steps  toward  administrative  unity  ever  taken 
by  an  American  county.  The  county  in  mind  is 
Denver,  Colorado.  Ever  since  the  constitution 
was  amended  in  1902  the  city  and  county  have 
been  geographically  identical.  Article  XX,  Sec- 
tion 2,  stipulates  that  "the  officers  of  the  city  and 
county  of  Denver  shall  be  such  as  by  appointment 
or  election  may  be  provided  for  by  the  charter." 
On  May  9,  19 16,  Denver  abandoned  the  commis- 
sion plan  of  government  and  vested  the  appoint- 
ment of  city  and  county  officials  in  the  mayor.      A 

The -New  Jersey  and  Denver  experiments  point 
in  the  general  direction  of  administrative  unity; 
they  do  not  come  within  hailing  distance  of  the 
expectations  which  seem  to  be  justified  by  recent 
developments  in  American  cities.  For  after  all, 
the  practical  problem  is  the  same  in  every  civil 


RECONSTRUCTION:  PRINCIPLES       175 

division :  to  dispose  effectively  and  economically  of 
the  visible  supply  of  work  to  be  accomplished  or 
service  to  be  rendered.  And  this,  some  of  the  more 
aggressive  of  our  cities,  such  as  Dayton  and  Spring- 
field, 0.,  Niagara  Falls,  N.  Y.,  and  some  forty 
others  have  essayed  to  do  through  a  form  of 
organization  which  is  unity  and  simplicity  reduced 
to  its  lowest  terms :  the  plan  of  the  typical  business 
corporation.  A  board  of  directors  to  represent 
the  people;  a  city  manager  to  appoint  and  direct 
the  heads  of  departments — that  is  all  there  is  to  it. 
And  it  works! 

In  similar  fashion  the  people  of  our  counties 
will  surely  consent  to  a  reorganization  of  their 
public  affairs.  The  members  of  the  county  boards 
will  not  follow  the  example  of  some  of  our  present 
county  commissioners  and  personally  descend  to 
the  management  of  the  details  of  administration. 
They  will  learn  the  art  of  delegating  authority 
without  losing  control.  And  just  as  the  people  will 
have  simplified  their  problem  of  citizenship  by  con- 
centrating their  attention  on  the  governing  group, 
so  the  representative  body  will  focus  administra- 
tive responsibility  in  a  chief  subordinate.  To  be 
specific,  the  county  of  the  future  will  employ  a 
manager  chosen  appropriately  with  sole  reference  A 
to  his  fitness  to  manage  public  affairs  and  without 
regard  to  residence,  religion  or  views  on  the 
Mexican  situation,  who  will  pick  up  the  authority 
of  the  county  where  the  board  of  directors  leaves 
it  off. 


176  THE  COUNTY 

With  the  installation  of  the  manager  with  ade- 
quate powers,  the  county  will  have  supplied  the 
largest  single  essential  in  any  collective  effort: 
leadership.  Without  that  directing,  driving  force 
it  is  hardly  strange  that  counties,  up  to  the  present, 
have  headed  for  nowhere  in  particular. 

And  leadership  in  county  affairs  signifies  specifi- 
cally what? 

To  begin  with,  it  will  now  be  possible  to  build 
up  the  correct  sort  of  subsidiary  organization. 
For  instance,  with  such  leadership  it  should  not 
have  been  necessary,  for  the  lack  of  a  proper 
executive  responsibility,  for  Hudson  County  in 
New  Jersey  to  impose  upon  the  local  judges  the 
odd  function  of  selecting  a  mosquito  commission, 
and  to  dispose  the  rest  of  the  appointing  power 
as  the  fancy  of  the  moment  might  dictate. 

A  county  manager  who  has  the  power  to  appoint 
and  discharge  will  of  course  be  in  a  position  to  issue 
orders  with  a  reasonable  assurance  that  they  will  be 
obeyed  without  a  writ  of  mandamus  or  some  other 
form  of  judicial  intervention.  Public  business 
will  be  speeded  up  accordingly. 

And  then,  the  presence  of  a  responsible  execu- 
tive will  supply  an  indispensable  condition  of  a 
scientific  budget.  The  finance  committee  of  the 
governing  board  is  no  proper  substitute,  for,  as 
Mr.  Cartwright  ^  says :  "  Such  a  committee  cannot 
have  either  the  understanding  of  the  full  meaning 

^  Otho  G.  Cartwright,  Director  of  Westchester  County  Research 
Bureau. 


RECONSTRUCTION:  PRINCIPLES       177 

of  the  budget,  or  the  personal  interest  in  properly 
performing  the  work  of  preparation  that  an  execu- 
tive head  should  have  who  is  personally  responsible 
in  very  large  degree  for  the  success  or  failure  of  the 
entire  county  administration.  The  man  who  is 
officially  responsible  ought  personally  to  lay  the 
plans,  summoning  to  his  aid  such  advisers  as  he 
deems  best  suited  to  give  him  counsel."  The 
budget  is  the  financial  plan  or  program  in  a  given 
year.  It  must  see  the  needs  of  the  county  in  their 
unity.  It  is  the  proper  occupation  of  a  single 
directing  mind  which  is  continuously  and  inti- 
mately in  touch  through  his  subordinates,  with 
every  need  of  the  county.  Not  that  the  county 
manager  will  have  the  "power  of  the  purse"  and 
dictate  the  financial  policy  of  the  county.  On 
the  contrary,  he  will  simply  formulate  the  financial 
program  for  his  employers  to  accept  or  reject, 
in  whole  or  in  part  as  they  see  fit. 

The  county  manager  will  also  act  as  a  balance 
against  any  undue  pressure  from  any  geographical 
division  in  the  county  or  any  division  of  the  public 
service.  He  will  discover  possible  new  services 
or  better  methods  of  performing  old  services.  In 
short,  he  will  be  the  specially  accredited  agent  of 
the  county  board  in  carrying  out  its  policies  and 
the  initiating  force  of  public  opinion.  Through  the 
governing  board  and  the  county  manager  there 
will  be  a  clear  and  direct  succession  of  authority 
from  the  people  to  the  scullion  at  the  almshouse 
aad  the  assistant  turnkey  at  the  county  jail. 

13 


178  »  THE  COUNTY 

A  proposal  that  practically  squares  with  this 
formula  was  put  forth  some  years  ago  by  a  group 
of  Oregon  citizens  under  the  leadership  of  W.  S. 
U'Ren,  in  a  proposed  amendment  to  the  state 
constitution.  Under  the  projected  scheme  the 
county  business  would  be  in  the  hands  of  a  board 
of  three  directors  to  be  elected  by  the  voters  of  the 
county  for  terms  of  six  years.  This  board  would 
have  power  to  "make  all  expedient  rules  and  regu- 
lations for  the  successful,  efficient  and  economic 
management  of  all  county  business  and  property." 
It  would  be  necessary,  however,  to  employ  a  busi- 
ness mana'ger  who  would  be  the  "chief  executive 
of  the  county";  the  choice  of  this  officer  not  to  be 
limited  to  the  state  of  Oregon;  his  salary  to  be 
determined  by  the  board.  With  him  would  rest 
the  appointment  of  the  subordinate  county 
officers.  The  board  of  directors  would  be  em- 
powered to  audit  bills,  either  directly  or  through 
an  auditor. 

A  more  complete  and  detailed  plan  of  county 
government,  following  the  same  general  prin- 
ciples, was  embodied  in  a  bill  introduced  in  the 
New  York  legislature  in  1916.^  It  provided 
that  any  county,  except  those  comprising  New 
York  City,  might  adopt  the  statute  by  petition 
and  referendum.  The  county  would  therefore 
be  governed  by  a  board  of  five  county  super- 
visors who  would  act  through  a  manager,  whose 
duties  would  be: 

»  For  text  see  Appendix,  pp.  251-256. 


RECONSTRUCTION:  PRINCIPLES       179 

(a)  To  attend  all  meetings  of  the  board  of 
supervisors ; 

(b)  To  see  that  the  resolutions  and  other 
orders  of  the  board  of  supervisors  and  the  laws 
of  the  state  required  to  be  enforced  by  such 
board,  are  faithfully  carried  out  by  the  county, 
including  all  officers  chosen  by  the  electors; 

(c)  To  recommend  to  the  board  of  super- 
visors such  measures  as  he  may  deem  necessary 
or  expedient  for  the  proper  administration  of  the 
affairs  of  the  county  and  its  several  offices; 

(d)  To  appoint  all  county  officers  whose 
selection  by  the  electors  is  not  required  by  the 
constitution,  except  county  supervisors  and  the 
county  auditor  or  comptroller,  for  such  terms  of 
office  as  are  provided  by  law. 

Subject  to  resolutions  of  the  board  of  super- 
visors, he  shall: 

(e)  Purchase  all  supplies  and  materials  re- 
quired by  every  county  officer,  including  the 
superintendent  of  the  poor; 

(/)  Execute  contracts  on  behalf  of  the  board 
of  supervisors  v/hen  the  consideration  therein 
shall  not  exceed  five  hundred  dollars; 

(g)  Obtain  from  the  several  county  officers 
reports  of  their  various  activities  in  such  form 
and  at  such  times  as  the  board  of  supervisors 
may  require ; 

(h)  Obtain  from  the  several  county  officers 
itemized  estimates  of  the  probable  expense  of 
conducting  their  offices  for  the  ensuing  year,  and 
transmit  the  same  to  the  board  of  supervisors 
with  his  approval  or  disapproval  of  each  and 
all  items  therein,  in  the  form  of  a  tentative 
budget. 


1 80  THE  COUNTY 

(i)     Perform  such  other  duties  as  the  board  of 
supervisors  may  require. 

In  the  exercise  of  these  duties  the  county  man- 
ager would  have  power  to  examine  witnesses,  take 
testimony  under  oath  and  make  examination  of 
the  affairs  of  any  office. 

Inasmuch  as  the  constitution  of  New  York 
State  requires  the  election  by  the  people  of  the 
sheriff,  district  attorney,  county  clerk  and  register, 
the  method  of  choosing  these  officers  could  not  be 
affected  by  statute. 

The  Alameda  County  plan  referred  to  in  the 
preceding  chapter  provides  for  a  city-and-county 
manager  who  would  have  charge  not  only  of 
county  administration  but  of  the  execution  of  the 
policies  of  the  several  constituent  boroughs. 

Such  are  a  few  definite  proposals  for  funda- 
mental political  reconstruction  .  of  the  county. 
Recalling,  again,  the  low  estate  of  our  city  govern- 
ments, a  decade  since,  the  hope  for  an  early  and 
thoroughgoing  betterment  of  the  county  system, 
in  the  department  of  fundamental  structure,  would 
seem  to  be  not  altogether  vain. 


CHAPTER  XVIII 

SCIENTIFIC   ADMINISTRATION 

Better  county  government,  however,  involves 
a  good  deal  more  than  a  mere  skeleton  of  organiza- 
tion. It  is  not  enough  to  provide  the  means  for 
fixing  responsibility  in  a  general  though  funda- 
mental sense,  in  officers  who  are  conspicuous  and 
powerful.  That  is  the  beginning  of  efficiency. 
And  yet  "responsibility  "  in  its  greater  refinements, 
in  its  more  intimate  applications,  is  precisely 
the  key  to  what  all  the  various  prophets  of  better 
government  and  public  administration  are  preach- 
ing. Turn  on  the  light !  That  is  what  the  Short 
Ballot  movement  proposes  by  the  more  sweeping 
fundamental  changes  in  the  structure.  Turning 
on  the  light  is  also  essence  of  the  doctrine  of  better 
accounting,  better  auditing,  better  budget  making, 
better  purchasing  and  the  whole  tendency  to 
greater  publicity  in  the  conduct  of  public  affairs. 

Those  county  commissioners  out  in  Kansas  and 
Iowa  who  paid  too  much  for  their  bridges — what 
was  the  real  trouble  with  them?  A  writer  in  the 
agricultural  journal  which  exposed  these  scandals 
wound  up  his  article  with  an  exhortation  to  the 

i8i 


1 82  THE  COUNTY 

people  to  "elect  good  honest  men."  Such  advice 
was  at  least  a  shade  or  two  more  constructive 
than  the  political  preaching  of  a  century  ago 
(which  still  has  its  adherents)  that  public  officials 
tend  inevitably  to  become  thieves  and  crooks; 
that  the  best  that  we  can  do  is  to  tie^  their  hands 
by  ingenious  "checking"  and  "balancing"  devices 
until  it  is  almost  impossible  for  them  to  move. 
To-day  one  group  of  political  reconstructionists 
says:  "Give  these  officers  plenty  of  power,  and 
then  watch  them,"  and  another  group,  supple- 
menting the  former,  says:  "Give  officers  the 
means  of  knowing  exactly  what  they  are  doing; 
give  also  the  public  the  means  of  watching 
intelligently  and  minutely;  and  if  their  public 
servants  go  wrong  it  is  'up  to  the  people,'"  ac- 
tually as  well  as  formally.  One  is  quite  safe  in 
assuming,  for  instance,  that  the  offices  of  those 
middle  western  county  officials  were  terribly 
"shy"  on  reliable  data  on  bridge  construction 
with  which  to  meet  the  wiles  of  the  combined 
contractors. 

To  begin  with,  what  kind  of  a  bridge  was  most 
needed?  Did  they  have  records  as  to  the  volume 
and  weight  of  traffic  which  was  likely  to  come  over 
the  structure?  Did  they  seek  light  from  an 
engineer  of  untarnished  reputation  or  did  they 
just  trust  to  their  "horse  sense"  and  the  fact  that 
they  "had  lived  there  all  their  lives  and  they 
ought  to  know,  if  anybody  did"?  What  did  the 
records  in   the    county   engineer's  office  show  as 


SCIENTIFIC    ADMINISTRATION        183 

to  the  relative  durability  and  maintenance  ex- 
pense of  steel  bridges  as  against  wooden  bridges, 
under  the  peculiar  local  conditions? 

Then  as  to  the  bids  on  the  proposed  structure: 
how  did  these  compare  with  the  cost  of  bridges 
of  equal  tonnage  in  other  states  and  counties? 
How  about  the  current  state  of  the  steel  market — 
would  it  be  better  to  buy  now  or  wait  a  few 
months  until  business  at  the  mills  was  likely  to 
be  slack? 

How  about  financing  the  bridge  project  ?  Should 
the  cost  be  borne  out  of  the  current  year's  revenues, 
should  it  be  covered  by  a  ten -year  bond  issue  or 
should  the  next  generation  of  taxpayers  be  saddled 
with  payments  long  after  the  bridge  had  outlived 
its  usefulness? 

A  board  of  supervisors  or  a  county  manager  or 
a  county  engineer  armed  with  an  answer  to  this 
series  of  extremely  pertinent  questions  and  a 
modicum  of  common  honesty  would  be  proof 
against  ninety-nine  per  cent,  of  the  "slick"  deals 
which  are  so  often  ''put  over"  on  an  unsuspecting 
public  and  their  easy-going  servants. 

The  science  of  public  administration  consists 
principally  in  knowing  exactly  where  you  are  and 
what  you  are  doing — knowledge  gained  through 
experimentation,  investigation  and  comparison 
and  by  consultation  of  authoritative  standards 
and  with  authorities  themselves. 

-We  will  illustrate  this  principle  in  a  few  of  its 
applications : 


^ 


1 84  THE  COUNTY 

ACCOUNTING 

The  accounting  system  of  any  organization, 
public  or  private,  is  useful  in  proportion  to  the 
definiteness^  of  its  analyses  or  classifications,  ac- 
cording to  what  is  most  important  to  be  known. 
Thus,  in  New  York  State,  the  statutes  authorize 
boards  of  supervisors  to  allow  claims  on  the  basis : 
(i)  of  specific  amounts  imposed  by  state  law, 
such  as  the  stated  salaries  of  judges,  (2)  of  amounts 
fixed  by  the  board  of  supervisors  under  authority 
of  law.  In  at  least  one  county  (Westchester)  it 
was  formerly  the  custom  to  lump  a  great  variety 
of  claims  under  the  second  heading — under  the 
title  "county  audited  bills" —  a  procedure  which 
was  satisfactory  enough  perhaps,  if  to  know  the 
authority  for  payment  were  the  only  information 
desired.  By  such  a  system  it  was  impossible  to 
tell  the  cost  of  running  any  county  office  or  de- 
partment without  actually  tracing  each  voucher 
back  to  its  source.  Thus,  it  was  found  that,  in 
the  year  1907  the  budget  authorization  for  the 
superintendent  of  the  poor  was  $17,485.61,  while 
the  expenditures  shown  by  the  treasurer's  report 
were  $108,906.58  and  the  actual  cost  of  the  office, 
when  proper  additions  were  made  from  the  "  county 
audited  bills, "  was  $1 18,464.33.  Discrepancies  of 
an  equally  serious  nature  were  revealed  in  the 
case  of  most  of  the  other  offices.  The  accounting 
system  through  its  inexact  classifications  gave 
information  which  was  useful  in  protecting  the 


SCIENTIFIC   ADMINISTRATION        185 

treasurer  but  which  was  practically  without  value 
as  a  description  of  what  the  county's  departments 
were  doing  and  how  economically  they  were  do- 
mg  It. 

Exact  classification  is  also  essential  to  the  last 
degree  in  the  making  of  the  budget,  to  the  end 
that  actual  experience  in  the  way  of  revenues 
received  and  funds  disbursed  may  be  made  the 
reliable  basis  of  future  activities.  In  a  well- 
ordered  system  of  state  supervision  of  local  ac- 
counts the  classifications  will  be  made  by  a  state 
official  who  will  have  the  power  to  enforce  com- 
pliance upon  the  part  of  the  fiscal  officer  in  each 
county.  So  that  in  time  each  county  will  have 
the  inestimable  advantage  of  being  able  to  com- 
pare its  finances  with  those  of  other  similar  units. 
A  proper  accounting  system  will  proceed  so  far 
in  its  analysis  as  to  provide  a  large  amount  of 
data  concerning  the  cost  of  units  of  service  ren- 
dered and  materials  consumed.  Among  other 
things,  it  will  reveal  at  any  and  all  times  precisely 
what  is  the  condition  of  the  county's  assets  both 
in  the  shape  of  funds  and  of  investments;  it  will 
show  how  much  the  county  actually  owes  and  is 
to  owe  at  any  future  date.  ' 

THE  BUDGET 

On  the  basis  of  accounts  that  tell  in  detailed 
classification  the  needs  and  the  resources  of  the 
county,  the  governing  body  will  be  able  to  embark 


/ 


i86  THE  COUNTY 

upon  the  financial  voyage  of  each  new  year  with 
chart  and  compass.  At  a  stated  time  before  the 
budget-making  period  the  heads  of  departments, 
having  before  them  the  records  of  transactions 
and  costs  in  previous  years,  will  frame  their 
requests  for  future  service.  But  because  of  the 
exactness  of  the  estimates  required  to  be  submitted, 
any  request  for  an  increase  of  appropriation  will  v 
stand  out  as  a  shining  mark.  The  department 
head  will  thereby  be  thrown  on  the  defensive,  will 
be  obliged  to  explain  himself.  The  knowledge 
of  that  condition  will  have  a  distinctly  beneficial 
effect  upon  any  desire  of  his  to  seek  increased 
appropriations  without  careful  consideration. 

The  governing  body  will  proceed,  moreover,  with 
the  certitude  that  the  public  has  at  its  disposal 
the  means  of  knowing  in  detail  what  its  govern- 
ment is  costing.  The  business  of  the  year  will 
be  treated  as  a  program  of  public  service;  and  in 
the  framing  of  that  program  every  interested 
citizen  and  group  of  citizens  will  be  urged  to  take 
part  through  the  medium  of  public  hearings. 
As  the  Westchester  County  Research  Bureau  says: 
"It  would  be  easy  to  provide  an  opportunity  for 
the  filing  of  either  objections  or  additional  sugges- 
tions by  taxpayers  and  for  consideration  of  these 
at  public  hearing  at  the  county  seat  before  the 
board  of  supervisors  by  public  notice  of  such 
filing  and  of  such  public  hearing.  Such  hearings 
would  doubtless  speedily  end  such  abuses  as  are 
exemplified   in   our  bulletin   on   the   Purchase   of 


SCIENTIFIC    ADMINISTRATION        187 

County  Supplies.  In  the  face  of  public  objection, 
few  supervisors  would  vote  affirmatively  for  ap- 
propriations for  such  extravagant  expenditures. 
The  difference  in  result  would  be  that  between  the 
action  of  an  informed  public,  able  to  deliberate 
in  advance  upon  proposed  expenditures,  and  the 
absence  of  action  of  a  public  ignorant  of  the  char- 
acter of  such  proposed  expenditures — the  usual 
condition  under  present  methods  of  budget  pro- 
vision for  public  funds. 

*'It  is  easy  to  prevent  the  official  adoption  over 
public  objection  of  extravagant  estimates.  It  is 
difficult  to  prevent  extravagant  misuse  of  public 
funds  appropriated  in  lump  sums,  or  to  rectify 
such  misuses  after  such  expenditures  have  been 
incurred."^ 

'  Complete  knowledge  and  complete  mutual  con- 
fidence and  understanding  on  the  part  of  the 
public  on  the  one  hand  and  its  agencies  of^govern- 
ment  on  the  other — that  is  the  big  and  seemingly 
reasonable  promise  of  a  budget  system  of  the  right 
sort.  It  cannot  be  put  into  operation  in  the  fullest 
extent  without  those  structural  changes  in  county 
government  with  which  we  have  already  dealt. 

AUDITING  AND  PURCHASING 

A  special  field  in  which  exact  knowledge  is 
particularly  essential  as  a  safeguard  against  theft 
is  that  of  the  auditor.     To  many  a  county  treasurer 

^"The  Making  of  the  County  Budget,"  Westchester  County 
Research  Bureau,  1912. 


188  THE  COUNTY 

the  auditing  demands  of  the  government  appear  to 
be  met  when  some  basis  of  authority  for  a  payment 
has  been  established.  Sotnetimes  even  then  the 
authority  in  question  is  not  a  legal  one  for  often' 
it  may  not  be  established  by  reference  to  the  letter 
of  the  statute  but  by  the  precedents  set  by  previous 
incumbents.     Not  "What  does  the  law  say  about 

it?"  but  "What  did do  in  such  cases?"  is  apt 

to  be  the  question  uppermost  in  the  mind  of  the 
official.  How  many  millions  of  good  money  have 
sHpped  through  county  treasurers'  hands  through 
such  a  procedure  will  never  be  known.  The  state 
examiner  who  has  not  discovered  many  an  old- 
fashioned  county  where  many  such  illegal  payments 
have  been  made  is  rare  indeed. 

But  such  post-mortem  checking  of  illegal  pay- 
ments is,  for  the  most  part,  but  a  sad  business. 
Modern  standards  of  auditing  organization  and 
practice  aim  to  insure  more  completely  that  the 
authority  for  payment  shall  be  established  before 
payment.  The  auditor  should  certainly  be  wholly 
independent  of  the  disbursing  officer  and  some 
authorities  would  also  insist,  of  the  appropriating 
body.  Least  of  all  should  the  auditing  be  done 
by  the  appropriating  body  itself  or  through  its 
committees  (as  is  true  in  some  states)  for  such  an 
audit  through  lack  of  first-hand  consideration  and 
definite  fixing  of  responsibility  rapidly  degenerates 
into  a  perfunctory  performance.  It  is  even  the 
practice  in  some  counties  to  audit  bills  in  full 
board  by  acclamation! 


SCIENTIFIC   ADMINISTRATION        189 

And  since  so  large  a  portion  of  county  claims 
are  for  material  and  supplies  for  use  in  the  con- 
struction and  maintenance  of  roads,  bridges  and 
institutions,  the  work  of  audit  cannot  fail  to  be 
closely  associated  with  the  purchasing  system. 
The  purchasing  agent  b}^  whatsoever  name  called, 
is,  after  all,  a  special  sort  of  auditor,  dealing  with 
a  variety  of  commodities  instead  of  funds.  As  in 
every  other  branch  of  public  service,  successful 
purchasing  depends  primarily  on  exact  iilforma- 
tion,  relating  in  this  case,  to  standards  of  utiHty 
of  various  articles,  the  present  and  the  probable 
future  state  of  the  market,  the  exact  condition  of 
present  supplies,  the  honest  fulfillment  of  contracts. 
Such  information  may  come  through  stock  ledgers, 
inspectors,  trade  journals  or  chemical  tests. 

In  the  county  of  Alameda,  Cal.,  as  a  result  of 
investigation,  publicity  and  political  pressure  re- 
sulting in  changes  in  the  purchasing  procedure 
in  the  county  offices,  the  sum  of  $810,205  was 
saved  on  the  one  item  of  cost  of  elections  in  the 
years  1912-1916.  Blank  affidavits  of  registration 
dropped  from  $16.50  to  $3.30  per  thousand,  elec- 
tion ballots  from  $22.12  to  $1.65.  On  advertising, 
election  proclamation,  etc.,  there  was  a  saving 
during  the  period  of  1700  per  cent.  And  this  is 
by  no  means  an  unique  experience.  It  is  typical 
of  results  obtained  under  careful  scientific  purchas- 
ing  methods   in   public  work'  everywhere.  ^     Ac- 

^  Excellent  results  have  been  obtained  by  the  purchasing 
agent  of  Onondaga  County,  New  York,  Mr.  Frank  X.  Wood. 


190  THE  COUNTY 

curate  records,  a  study  of  unit  costs,  **  pitiless 
publicity,"  standardization  and  elimination  of 
senseless  waste  and  lost  motion  constitute  the  ex- 
planation. The  Tax  Association  is  now  urging 
the  consolidation  of  public  purchasing  agencies 
throughout  the  county  in  order  to  take  advantage 
of  the  still  greater  economies  which  accrue  to  the 
large  buyer. 

OTHER  FORMS  OF  ACCOUNTING 

It  is  not  only  in  its  material  interests  that 
the  county  will  be  in  need  of  exact  information. 
Where  the  county  comes  into  contact  with  the 
human  factor  the  importance  of  working  in  the 
daylight  cannot  be  overlooked.  It  will  not  do  for 
the  officer  in  charge  of  the  poor  to  keep  records 
*' under  his  hat"  concerning  the  inmates  under  his 
charge.  Similarly,  the  probation  officer  will  in- 
vestigate and  account  for  the  delinquencies  and 
the  special  needs  of  his  wards,  in  a  really  informing 
way.  And  the  sheriff,  so  long  as  he  shall  be  the 
peace  officer  of  the  county,  will  furnish  a  record  of 
crimes  committed  within  his  jurisdiction  which  will 
possibly  lead  to  suitable  preventive  measures. 

It  is  a  high  standard  of  administrative  efficiency 
which  we  have  set  up.  No  single  county  so 
far  as  we  know,  measures  up  to  it  at  present. 
No  county,  apparently,  without  compulsion  from 
the  central  state  government,  has  even  made  any 
serious  progress  along  these  lines  except  at  the 


SCIENTIFIC   ADMINISTRATION        191 

instigation  of  a  privately  supported  research 
bureau  or  tax  association.  County  administrative 
organization  and  procedure  is  virgin  soil  for 
constructive  civic  effort. 

But  administrative  procedure  is  not  more  im- 
portant to  county  betterment  than  the  personnel 
of  the  organization.  ''Politics"  in  administration 
has  come  to  mean  the  antithesis  of  scientific 
standards.  Mediocrity  and  incompetency  sit  en- 
throned where  party  expediency  takes  precedence 
over  the  interests  of  the  whole  county. 

THE  MERIT   SYSTEM 

Therefore  abolish  *'poHtics!"  No  single  county 
of  its  own  initiative  has  taken  a  more  important 
step  toward  that  end  than  Los  Angeles,  California, 
under  its  special  home-rule  charter,  which  is  not — 
able  for  the  advanced  character  of  its  civil  service 
provisions.  Among  other  things  it  creates  a 
bureau  of  efficiency,  consisting  of  the  civil  service 
commission  (three  members) ,  the  secretary  thereof 
and  the  auditor  of  the  county.  To  quote  the 
language  of  the  charter,  the  duty  of  this  bureau  is 
that  of  "determining  the  duties  of  each  position 
in  the  classified  service,  fixing  standards  of  effici- 
ency, investigating  the  methods  of  operation  of  the 
various  departments  and  recommending  to  the 
board  of  supervisors  and  department  heads 
measures  for  increasing  individual,  group  and 
departmental  efficiency,   and   providing  for  uni- 


f 

192  THE  COUNTY    . 

formity  of  competition  and  simplicity  of  opera- 
tion." The  commission  is  required  to  "ascertain 
and  record  the  comparative  efficiency  of  employes 
in  the  classified  service"  and  has  power  after  a 
hearing,  to  "  dismiss  from  the  service  those  who 
fall  below  the  standards  of  efficiency  established."^ 
With  a  combination  of  a  structure  of  govern- 
ment designed  to  fix  general  responsibility,  an 
administrative  procedure  desi  .ned  to  let  daylight 
into  public  business  and  an  administrative  per- 
sonnel free  to  serve  the  interests  of  the  public, 
the  people  of  the  county  will  be  in  a  position  to 
just  about  get  what  they  want,  within  the  measure 
of  power  granted  to  the  locality  under  the  laws  of 
the  state. 

^  For  full  text  of  provisions,  see  Charter  of  Los  Angeles  (Ap- 
pendix B). 


CHAPTER  XIX 

THE  COUNTY  OF  THE  FUTURE 

In  our  mind's  eye  we  have  now  completely 
made  over  the  system.  Metropolitan  counties 
have  retired  from  the  field;  the  remainder  have 
in  a  large  measure  been  put  in  command  of  their 
own  destinies  through  a  generous  extension  of  the 
home-rule  principle.  The  county  politician  of 
the  conventional  type  has  been  extinguished  and 
single-minded  service  of  the  whole  people  has 
replaced  a  hyphenated  allegiance  that  put  the 
county  chairman  in  the  place  of  highest  honor. 

What  could  such  a  county  do  for  its  citizens? 

It  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  this  county  of 

the  imagination  with  which  we  are  particularly 

concerned  will  be   practically  confined   to  rural 

and  semi-rural  localities.     Here,   even  while  we 

dream,  a  very  actual  metamorphosis  is  going  on 

which  inevitably  promotes  a  sense  of  community 

interest.    Thanks  to  Alexander  Graham  Bell  and 

Henry  Ford,  the  countryside  is  getting  together 

in  spite  of  itself!     The  rural  gentry  will  think  in 

bigger  units  and  the  basis  of  its  allegiances  will  be 

correspondingly  broadened.     And  a  more  funda- 
13  193 


1 


194  THE  COUNTY 

mental  accomplishment  for  county  betterment 
could  not  well  be  conceived,  for,  as  Herbert  Quick 
has  asked:  "Did  you  ever  know  a  man  that  was 
proud  of  his  county?"  The  answer  to  which  he 
gives  himself:  ''I  knew  but  one  such  man  and 
his  relations  were  all  in  county  offices." 

The  county  of  the  past  has  lacked  opportunity 

to  *'do  itself  proud."     The  county  of  the  future 

will  be  equipped  to  do  interesting  things  in  an 

interesting  way.     But  it  must  develop  policies — 

I      real  politics — as  a  substitute  for  the  interest  that 

(^^^^\^^  has  made  place  hunting  and  place  holding  a  basic 

^     rural  industry.     The  farmer  of  the  future  must  be 

given  something  more  wholesome  to  think  about 

*' during    the   long   winter   evenings"    than    who 

is  to  be  the  next  coroner;  and  he  must  cease  to 

measure  his  freedorn  by  the  number  of  offices  he 

attempts  to  fill  with  his  ballot. 

But  before  county  citizenship  is  raised  to  the 
point  of  appreciation  of  the  new  order  a  benevolent 
deed  of  violence  must  be  done  to  a  power  in  the 
community  noted  principally  for  sycophantic  ap- 
proval of  the  administration  in  power,  an  utter 
lack  of  either  conscience  or  ideas,  and  "patent  in- 
sides" — the  county  official  newspaper.  The  cheap 
'* boiler-plate"  weekly  must  go  the  way  of  old 
Dobbin  and  in  its  place  will  come  some  means  yet 
to  be  devised,  for  putting  out  official  advertising 
that  really  advertises  and  furnishing  news  that  is 
not  only  "fit  to  print,"  but  w^orth  the  while. 

When  these  mechanical  essentials  of  an  efficient 


THE  COUNTY  OF  THE  FUTURE   195 

local  democracy  shall  have  been  acquired  the 
county  will  be  in  a  position  to  formulate  a  genuine 
program  of  service.  As  to  the  ingredients  for  the 
same  a  few  suggestions  may  be  in  order: 

PUBLIC   HEALTH 

Contrary  perhaps  to  general  opinion,  the  rural 
sections  of  the  country  are  not  conspicuously  free 
from  a  public  health  problem.  All  the  squalor, 
bad  housing  and  contagion  is  not  in  the  crowded 
city  tenements.  Rural  citizens  have  perhaps 
much  more  to  learn  about  pure  milk  and  water, 
for  instance,  than  their  city  brethren.  But  the 
public  health  movement  has  struck  the  country 
districts.  It  seems  to  have  come  principally  by 
way  of  the  nation  wide  attack  on  tuberculosis. 
During  the  past  six  or  seven  years  there  has  been  a 
remarkable  campaign  for  institutions  for  the  care 
of  persons  afflicted  with  this  malady.  It  is  some- 
thing entirely  distinct  from  the  idea  of  caring  for 
the  pauper  sick,  for  it  has  been  found  difficult 
to  persuade  many  people  in  need  of  proper  treat- 
ment to  go  to  an  institution  to  which  a  long-stand- 
ing stigma  is  attached.  New  York  now  has  such 
special  institutions  in  about  half  of  its  counties. 
In  the  South,  North  Carolina  has  made  more 
important  progress  than  any  other  state.  Ninety 
of  its  hundred  counties  have  part-time  county 
physicians,  while  the  other  ten  have  county  health 
officers  devoting  their  entire  time  and  energies  to 


196  THE   COUNTY 

the  preservation  of  public  health  and  the  preven- 
tion of  disease.  The  standard  for  the  selection  of 
these  officers  is  very  high. 

Wisconsin  has  enacted  a  statute  authorizing 
the  board  of  supervisors  of  any  county  to  employ 
a  graduate  trained  nurse  whose  duties  are: 

"To  act  as  a  consulting  expert  on  hygiene 
for  all  schools  not  already  having  medical  in- 
spection either  by  physician  or  visiting  nurse, 
to  assist  the  superintendents  of  the  poor  in  their 
care  of  the  poor  in  the  county  who  are  in  need 
of  the  services ;  to  give  instruction  to  tuberculosis 
patients  and  others  relative  to  hygiene  measures 
to  be  observed  in  preventing  the  spread  of  tuber- 
culosis; to  aid  in  making  a  report  of  existing 
cases  of  tuberculosis;  to  act  as  visiting  nurse 
throughout  the  county  and  to  perform  such  other 
duties  as  a  nurse  and  hygienic  expert  as  may  be 
assigned  to  her  by  the  county  board." 

That  the  spirit  of  the  new  public  health  move- 
ment is  taking  hold  to  some  extent  in  Minnesota 
is  the  testimony  of  a  local  authority^: 

"Koochiching  County  has  the  first  and  only 
county  health  organization  in  the  state.  The 
county  commissioners  and  the  county  school 
board  there  see  the  economy  of  hiring  a  medi- 
cal man  to  preserve  the  health  of  the  community 
and  to  keep  the  children  in  school  the  maximum 
number  of  days  each  term. 

'  Dr.  I.  J.  Murphy  of  the  Minnesota  Public  Health  Associa- 
tion, 


THE  COUNTY  OF  THE  FUTURE   197 

"Furthermore,  they  have  chosen  a  health 
officer  with  a  proper  point  of  view;  one  who 
believes  that  a  health  department  should  be  an 
educational  agency  more  than  a  police  bureau; 
one  who  reserves  the  '  police  club '  for  exceptional 
emergencies,  but  who  is  ever  ready  to  instruct 
and  convert.  In  Koochiching  County  the  au- 
thorities are  laying  the  foundation  for  a  type 
of  citizenship  that  is  not  only  going  to  grow  up 
healthy,  but  will  be  so  well  informed  that  it  will 
observe  sanitary  laws  and  insist  upon  proper 
health  safeguards.  A  county  health  organization 
similar  to  the  one  in  Koochiching  County,  or  a 
better  one  if  it  can  be  afforded,  is  needed  in  every 
Minnesota  county,  southern  as  well  as  northern, 
but  particularly  in  the  pioneer  district." 

The  public  health  movement  in  counties  is  by 
no  means  limited  to  the  cited  states. 


COUNTY  PLANNING 

An  example  full  of  suggestive  possibilities  for 
almost  any  locality  comes  to  us  from  Westchester 
County,  N.  Y.  It  is  a  district  which  is  partly 
suburban  and  partly  rural  and  has  had  very  little 
unity  excepting  a  political  one.  The  lines  of  rail- 
road travel  run  not  to  a  common  center  within  the 
county  but  to  the  Grand  Central  Terminal  in 
New  York  City.  This  situation  the  Westchester 
County  Chamber  of  Commerce  set  about  to  allevi- 
ate at  least  in  some  degree  by  means  of  a  county 
physical  plan  which  would  facilitate  communica- 


198  THE   COUNTY 

tion  between  sections  and  possibly  tend  to  distri- 
bute population  more  evenly.  The  plan  calls  for 
a  carefully  thought-out  system  of  roads,  parks 
and  sewers.  It  is  a  private  undertaking,  but 
cities  have  official  planning  commissions;  why  not 
counties?  What  could  better  serve  as  the  starting 
point  for  a  broad,  comprehensive  program  for  a 
modernized  county  to  undertake  .^^ 

COUNTY  LIBRARIES 

Quite  as  fundamental  to  the  welfare  of  the 
rural  county  as  turnpikes  and  bridges  is  the 
awakening  of  its  intellectual  life.  The  school 
system  is  becoming  everywhere  more  highly  cen- 
tralized, so  that  educational  policies  and  ad- 
ministration are  controlled  from  the  state  capitol. 
But  the  schools  only  meet  the  demand  in  an 
elementary  limited  way,  leaving  the  adult  popula- 
tion and  the  graduate  of  the  common  and  high 
schools  for  the  most  part  unprovided  for.  The 
United  States  Commissioner  of  Education  has 
discovered  that  "probably  seventy  per  cent,  of 
the  entire  population  of  the  country  have  no  access 
to  any  adequate  collection  of  books  or  to  a  public 
reading  room.  In  only  about  one  third  of  the 
counties  of  the  United  States  is  there  a  library 
of  five  thousand  volumes  or  more.  In  only  one 
hundred  of  these  do  the  villages  and  country 
people  have  free  use  of  the  libraries." 

In  1 90 1  an  Ohio  county  through  a  legacy  left 


THE  COUNTY  OF  THE  FUTURE   199 

by  one  of  its  citizens  was  enabled  to  meet  this 
deficiency  at  least  partially  by  establishing  the 
first  county  library.  It  has  grown  rapidly  and 
now  has  not  only  a  central  building  but  a  number 
of  sub-stations.  The  county  is  said,  as  a  result 
of  this  beginning,  to  have  experienced  a  general 
awakening  which  has  been  evidenced  in  good 
county  pikes,  county  parks  and  a  hundred  other 
tangible  ways. 

Following  the  example  of  Ohio,  county  library 
laws  were  passed  in  Wyoming,  Wisconsin,  Minne- 
sota, Missouri,  Maryland,  Oregon,  Nebraska  and 
New  York.  California  has  twenty-seven  county 
libraries. 

THE  PUBLIC  DEFENDER 

Throughout  Oklahoma  and  in  Los  Angeles  county 
a  humanitarian  public  opinion  has  manifested 
itself  in  the  erection  of  a  new  county  office, 
that  of  public  defender.  The  purpose  of  this 
new  institution  is  to  put  the  impecunious  litigant 
actually  as  well  as  legally  on  an  equal  footing  with 
his  opponent,  whether  he  be  a  defendant  in  a 
criminal  action  or  a  party  to  a  civil  suit.  Hitherto 
the  law  had  prescribed  that  every  defendant 
should  have  counsel,  even  if  it  be  at  the  state's 
expense.  But  the  lawyers  assigned  to  this  some- 
what thankless  task  (in  a  pecuniary  sense)  were 
either  young  and  inexperienced  or  too  busy  with 
more   lucrative   practice    to   give   the  "charity" 


200  THE   COUNTY 

cases  the  attention  they  deserved.  Under  the  new 
system  the  salaried  defender  is  a  man  comparable 
in  his  ability  to  the  district  attorney;  he  gives  his 
entire  time  to  the  county  and  has  a  number  of 
assistants.  The  defender  serves  also  as  an  investi- 
gator for  the  court  and  often  in  this  capacity  dis- 
covers circumstances  which  justify  the  judge  in 
mitigating  sentence.  Incidentally,  two  years  ex- 
perimentation with  this  office  in  Los  Angeles  has 
shown  that  a  considerable  saving  can  be  made 
as  against  the  old  method  of  employing  various 
lawyers  in  private  practice. 

While  the  public  defender  will  doubtless  acquire 
greatest  importance  in  city  counties,  rural  com- 
munities will  not  fail  to  provide  opportunities  for 
his  services. 

AN   IDEALIZED  POORMASTER 

For  another  piece  of  successful  experimentation 
we  must  again  revert  to  Westchester  County, 
N.  Y.,  this  time  to  the  work  of  V.  Everit  Macy,  the 
superintendent  of  the  poor  elected  in  November, 
1 9 14.  Mr.  Macy  entered  upon  his  public  duties, 
a  man  of  wealth  and  long  experience  in  social  w^el- 
fare  work.  He  found  the  poor  administration  of 
the  county  at  its  political  worst :  petty  graft  in  com- 
mitments and  the  purchase  of  supplies,  an  archaic 
almshouse,  a  notable  absence  of  informing  records, 
neglect  of  proper  medical  examinations.  He  began 
at  the  source  of  the  trouble  by  eliminating  "poli- 


THE  COUNTY  OF  THE  FUTURE   201 

tics,"  in  the  making  of  appointments,  by  the  simple 
expedient  of  requiring  applicants  for  positions 
to  state  their  qualifications.  In  time  he  had  sur- 
rounded himself  with  a  group  of  trained  social 
workers,  men  and  women  who,  according  to  one 
observer,  ^  ''are  as  unlike  the  staff  commonly  found 
with  a  poor-law  officer  as  the  faculty  of  a  univer- 
sity is  unlike  that  of  a  one-room  country  school." 
The  simple  recital  of  a  few  of  his  achievements  in 
his  first  two-year  term  presages,  perhaps,  the  county 
of  the  future  as  somewhere  in  sight  of  its  highest 
efficiency  as  a  humanitarian  agency.  Mr.  Macy 
systematized  records,  required  physical  and  medi- 
cal examination  of  all  inmates,  weeded  out  mental 
defectives  and  sent  them  to  custodial  institutions, 
started  competitive  bidding  in  the  purchase  of 
supplies  (saving  $18,000  in  the  first  year),  improved 
the  diet  of  inmates  and  their  general  level  of  health, 
tripled  the  amount  of  produce  raised  upon  the 
county  farm,  made  the  hospital  a  preventive 
agency  instead  of  a  place  for  treating  cases  suf- 
fering obviously  from  disease. 

The  superintendent's  basic  interest,  by  the  way, 
is  the  ultimate  causes  and  prevention  of  poverty, 
and  to  this  end  he  has  instituted  investigations  and 
records  of  the  habits,  occupations  and  every  other 
matter  concerning  the  inmates  that  might  throw 
light  upon  their  present  condition. 

^  See  Winthrop  D.  Lane,  "A  Rich  Alan  in  the  Poor  House," 
Survey,  Nov.  4,  1916.  Reprinted  in  pamphlet  form  by  t!.e 
County  Government  Association,  White  Plains,  N.  Y. 


202  THE   COUNTY 

In  the  handling  of  children's  cases,  his  work 
has  been  particularly  effective.  To  begin  with, 
unnecessar}^  commitments,  which  had  been  en- 
couraged by  the  fee  system  prevailing  in  New 
York,  have  been  prevented.  And  during  the  first 
year  of  the  term  311  children  ceased  to  be  public 
charges,  some  of  those  previously  committed 
having  been  transferred  to  state  homes,  some 
having  been  placed  in  foster  homes,  but  the  far 
greater  number,  239,  having  been  returned  to  their 
relatives.  Inasmuch  as  the  annual  cost  to  the 
county  for  each  committed  child  was  $237,  the 
public  saving  accomplished  through  this  systema- 
tic, intelligent  handling  of  the  child  problem  was 
over  $17,000. 

Before  Mr.  Macy's  first  term  had  expired  he 
had  so  far  won  the  confidence  of  the  board  of 
supervisors  and  the  public  in  general  that  they 
accepted  plans  for  centralizing  the  public  welfare 
work  of  the  county  in  a  great  plant  for  which 
nearly  $2,000,000  has  already  been  appropriated. 
Within  the  confines  of  this  new  establishment  will 
be  accommodated  the  almshouse,  the  county 
hospital  and  the  county  jail.  The  office  of 
superintendent  of  the  poor,  in  the  meantime  has 
been  abolished  (January  i,  191 7)  and  a  new 
officer  to  be  known  as  the  commissioner  of  chari- 
ties and  correction,  and  having  greatly  extended 
jurisdiction,  will  take  his  place. 

It  is  a  new  conception  which  Mr.  Macy  has 
given  us  of  the  once  melancholy  job  of  the  poor- 


THE  COUNTY  OF  THE  FUTURE   203 

master  and  he   has  new  revelations  of  the  possi- 
bilities of  his  position  in  store. 

CITIZEN  ORGANIZATION 

But  movements  for  better  rural  health,  better 
library  facilities,  better  physical  development  and 
for  a  better  conception  of  public  humane  obliga- 
tions do  not  spring  out  of  the  air.  Always  they 
are  the  product  either  of  some  personal  initiative 
or  some  organized  effort.  Does  any  county  clearly 
lack  that  element  of  citizen  leadership?  Then 
the  obvious  need  of  the  county  is  to  bridge  that 
gap.  The  rural  population  of  America  suffers 
(the  word  is  all  too  weak)  for  the  lack  of  a  pubhc 
community  sense.  Every  ''average"  rural  citizen 
is  a  unit,  he  does  not  travel  in  droves — so  much  for 
his  independence.  On  the  other  hand,  he  has 
not  fully  learned  the  art  of  cooperation  and  legiti- 
mate compromise.  The  end  of  this  condition, 
however,  will  doubtless  come  by  way  of  his  growing 
realization  of  a  community  of  private  interest 
developed  through  such  special  organizations  as 
county  chambers  of  commerce,  boards  of  trade  and 
county  agricultural  associations. 

Sometimes  such  bodies,  founded  with  the  idea 
of  promoting  a  common  material  advantage,  as, 
for  instance,  by  enhancing  the  value  of  local  real 
estate  or  attracting  capital  to  local  industries, 
discover  by  a  gradual  process  that  the  government 
is    an    indispensable    leverage    to    achieving    the 


204  THE   COUNTY 

particular  ends  in  view  and  that  existing  govern- 
ment is  a  decidedly  ineffectual  instrument.  It 
was  through  such  a  metamorphosis  that  the  Cham- 
ber of  Commerce  in  Westchester  County,  N.  Y., 
progressed  in  its  program  of  county  planning, 
to  a  study  of  and  attack  upon  the  faulty  system 
of  taxation,  to  plans  for  a  revision  of  county 
government  and  finally  to  an  active  interest  in 
county  home  rule  through  constitutional  revision. 
County  chambers  of  commerce  are  also  doing 
much  to  beat  down  the  barriers  of  distrust  that 
have  existed  between  the  farmer  and  the  business 
man.  By  a  commingling  of  the  two  in  a  common 
organization  both  have  often  come  to  an  under- 
standing of  their  mutual  interest  in  good  roads, 
good  schools  and  all  the  other  appurtenances  of  a 
developed  community. 

COUNTY  STUDY  CLUBS 

An  interesting  effort  to  stimulate  a  healthy 
county  consciousness  through  a  different  intellec- 
tual means  is  being  undertaken  in  North  Carolina. 
Under  the  auspices  of  the  University  of  North 
Carolina  "home-county  clubs"  have  been  estab- 
lished in  many  counties  and,  according  to  the 
prospectus,  the  members  "are  bent  upon  intimate, 
thoughtful  acquaintance  with  the  forces,  agencies, 
tendencies,  drifts  and  movements  that  have  made 
the  history  we  study  to-day,  and  that  are  making 
the  history  our  children  will    study  to-morrow.'* 


THE  COUNTY  OF  THE  FUTURE   205 

The  club  studies  are  mainly  concerned  with  rural 
problems.  Each  county  is  compared  with  itself 
during  the  last  census  period,  "in  order  to  learn 
in  what  particulars  it  has  moved  forward,  marking 
time  or  lagging  to  the  rearward."  But  also  it  is 
compared  with  other  counties  of  the  state,  in 
every  phase  of  the  study,  in  order  to  show  its  rank 
and  standing.  .  .  .  Meanwhile  the  state  as  a 
whole  is  being  set  against  the  big  background  of 
world  endeavor  and  achievement." 

Such  are  just  a  few  of  the  signs  of  the  broadening 
of  rural  community  life.  To  plan,  to  put  before 
the  public  for  discussion  and  approval,  and  to 
execute  just  such  projects  as  these  is  the  con- 
structive opportunity  of  the  county  of  the  future. 
It  is  a  program  which  v/ill  tax  the  county's  citizen- 
ship and  statesmanship.     It  is  the  county's  real 

"pontics." 


APPENDIX  A 

CONSTITUTIONAL  COUNTY  HOME  RULE  IN  CALIFORNIA 

[In  response  to  a  considerable  demand  for 
a  reorganization  of  certain  counties  the  Legisla- 
ture of  California  in  1 911  submitted  to  the  people 
the  amendment  to  Art.  XI.  of  the  constitution 
which  appears  herewith.  It  was  adopted  Octo-- 
ber  10,  191 1.  For  summary  and  comments  see 
pp.  145-147  of  the  text.] 

County  charters. 

Sec.  73^-  Any  county  may  frame  a  charter  for 
its  own  government  consistent  with  and  subject  to 
the  Constitution  (or,  having  framed  such  a  charter, 
may  frame  a  new  one),  and  relating  to  matters 
authorized  by  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  by 
causing  a  board  of  fifteen  freeholders,  who  have 
been  for  at  least  five  years  qualified  electors  thereof 
to  be  elected  by  the  qualified  electors  of  said  county 
at  a  general  or  special  election.  Said  board  of  free- 
holders may  be  so  elected  in  pursuance  of  an  ordi- 
nance adopted  by  the  vote  of  three  fifths  of  all  the 
members  of  the  board  of  supervisors  of  such 
county,  declaring  that  the  public  interest  requires 
the  election  of  such  board  for  the  purpose  of  pre- 
paring and  proposing  a  charter  for  said  county,  or 
in  pursuance  of  a  petition  of  qualified  electors  of 
said  county  as  hereinafter  provided.     Such  peti- 

207 


2o8  APPENDIX  A 

tion,  signed  by  fifteen  per  centum  of  the  qualified 
electors  of  said  county,  computed  upon  the  total 
number  of  votes  cast  therein  for  all  candidates  for 
Governor  at  the  last  preceding  general  election 
at  which  a  Governor  was  elected,  praying  for  the 
election  of  a  board  of  fifteen  freeholders  to  prepare 
and  propose  a  charter  for  said  county,  may  be  filed 
in  the  office  of  the  county  clerk.  It  shall  be  the 
duty  of  said  county  clerk,  within  twenty  days 
after  the  filing  of  said  petition,  to  examine  the 
same,  and  to  ascertain  from  the  record  of  the 
registration  of  electors  of  the  county,  whether  said 
petition  is  signed  by  the  requisite  number  of 
qualified  electors.  If  required  by  said  clerk,  the' 
board  of  supervisors  shall  authorize  him  to  employ 
persons  specially  to  assist  him  in  the  work  of 
examining  such  petition,  and  shall  provide  for  their 
compensation.  Upon  the  completion  of  such 
examination,  said  clerk  shall  forthwith  attach  to 
said  petition  his  certificate,  properly  dated,  show- 
ing the  result  thereof,  and  if,  by  said  certificate, 
it  shall  appear  that  said  petition  is  signed  by  the 
requisite  number  of  qualified  electors,  said  clerk 
shall  immediately  present  said  petition  to  the 
board  of  supervisors,  if  it  be  in  session,  otherwise 
at  its  next  regular  meeting  after  the  date  of  such 
certificate.  Upon  the  adoption  of  such  ordinance, 
or  the  presentation  of  such  petition,  said  board 
of  supervisors  shall  order  the  holding  of  a  special 
election  for  the  purpose  of  electing  such  board  of 
freeholders,  which  said  special  election  shall  be 
held  not  less  than  twenty  days  nor  more  than 
sixty  days  after  the  adoption  of  the  ordinance 
aforesaid  or  the  presentation  of  said  petition 
to  said  board  of  supervisors;  provided,  that  if  a 
general  election  shall  occur  in  said  county  not  less 
than  twenty  days  nor  more  than  sixty  days  after 


APPENDIX  A  209 

the  adoption  of  the  ordinance  aforesaid,  or  such 
presentation  of  said  petition  to  said  board  of 
supervisors,  said  board  of  freeholders  may  be 
elected  at  such  general  election.  Candidates  for 
election  as  members  of  said  board  of  freeholders 
shall  be  nominated  by  petition,  substantially  in  the 
same  manner  as  may  be  provided  by  general  law 
for  the  nomination,  by  petition  of  electors,  of 
candidates  for  count v  offices,  to  be  voted  for  at 
general  elections.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  said 
board  of  freeholders,  within  one  hundred  and 
twenty  days  after  the  result  of  such  election  shall 
have  been  declared  by  said  board  of  supervisors, 
to  prepare  and  propose  a  charter  for  said  county, 
which  shall  be  signed  in  duplicate  b}^  the  members 
of  said  board  of  freeholders,  or  a  majority  of  them, 
and  be  filed,  one  copy  in  the  office  of  the  county 
clerk  of  said  county  and  the  other  in  the  office 
of  the  county  recorder  thereof.  Said  Board  of 
Supervisors  shall  thereupon  cause  said  proposed 
charter  to  be  published  for  at  least  ten  times  in  a 
daily  newspaper  of  general  circulation,  printed, 
published  and  circulated  in  said  county;  provided, 
that  in  any  county  where  no  such  daily  newspaper 
is  printed,  published  and  circulated,  such  proposed 
charter  shall  be  published  for  at  least  three  times 
in  at  least  one  weekly  newspaper,  of  general 
circulation,  printed,  published  and  circulated  in 
such  county;  and  provided,  that  in  any  county 
where  neither  such  daily  nor  such  weekly  news- 
paper is  printed,  published  and  circulated,  a  copy 
of  such  proposed  charter  shall  be  posted  by  the 
county  clerk  in  three  public  places  in  said  county, 
and  on  or  near  the  entrance  to  at  least  one  public 
schoolhouse  in  each  school  district  in  said  count}'', 
and  the  first  publication  or  the  posting  of  such 
proposed  charter  shall  be  made  within  fifteen  days 
14 


2IO  APPENDIX  A 

after  the  filing  of  a  copy  thereof,  as  aforesaid,  in  the 
office  of  the  county  clerk.  Said  proposed  charter 
shall  be  submitted  by  said  board  of  supervisors 
to  the  qualified  electors  of  said  county  at  a  special 
election  held  not  less  than  thirty  days  nor  more 
than  sixty  days  after  the  completion  of  such  pub- 
lication, or  after  such  posting;  provided,  that  if  a 
general  election  shall  occur  in  said  county  not 
less  than  thirty  days  nor  more  than  sixty  days 
after  the  completion  of  such  publication,  or  after 
such  posting,  then  such  proposed  charter  may  be 
so  submitted  at  such  general  election.  If  a  majority 
of  said  qualified  electors,  voting  thereon  at  such 
general  or  special  election,  shall  vote  in  favor  of 
such  proposed  charter,  it  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
ratified,  and  shall  be  forthwith  submitted  to  the 
Legislature,  if  it  be  in  regular  session,  otherwise  at 
its  next  regular  session,  or  it  may  be  submitted  to 
the  Legislature  in  extraordinary  session,  for  its 
approval  or  rejection  as  a  whole,  without  power  of 
alteration  or  amendment.  Such  approval  may 
be  made  by  concurrent  resolution,  and  if  approved 
by  a  majority  vote  of  the  members  elected  to  each 
house,  such  charter  shall  become  the  charter  of 
such  county  and  shall  become  the  organic  law 
thereof  relative  to  the  matters  therein  provided, 
and  supersede  any  existing  charter  framed  under 
the  provisions  of  this  section,  and  all  amendments 
thereof,  and  shall  supersede  all  laws  inconsistent 
with  such  charter  relative  to  the  matters  provided 
in  such  charter.  A  copy  of  such  charter,  certified 
and  authenticated  by  the  chairman  and  clerk  of 
the  board  of  supervisors  under  the  seal  of  said 
boaid  and  attested  by  the  county  clerk  of  said 
county,  setting  forth  the  submission  of  such  charter 
to  the  electors  of  said  county,  and  its  ratification 
by  them,  shall,  after  the  approval  of  such  charter 


"APPENDIX  A  211 

by  the  Legislature,  be  made  in  duplicate,  and  filed, 
one  in  the  office  of  the  Secretary  of  State  and  the 
other,  after  being  recorded  in  the  office  of  the  re-^ 
corder  of  said  county,  shall  be  filed  in  the  office 
of  the  count}^  clerk  thereof,  and  thereafter  all 
courts  shall  take  judicial  notice  of  said  charter. 

The  charter,  so  ratified,  may  be  amended  by 
proposals  therefor  submitted  by  the  board  of 
supervisors  of  the  county  to  the  qualified  electors 
thereof  at  a  general  or  special  election  held  not  less 
than  thirty  days  nor  more  than  sixty  days  after  the 
publication  of  such  proposals  for  ten  times  in  a 
daily  newspaper  of  general  circulation,  printed, 
published  and  circulated  in  said  county;  provided ^ 
that  in  any  county  where  no  such  daily  newspaper 
is  printed,  published  and  circulated,  such  proposed 
charter  shall  be  published  for  at  least  three  times 
in  at  least  one  weekly  newspaper,  of  general  circu- 
lation, printed,  published  and  circulated  in  such 
county ;  provided,  that  in  any  county  where  neither 
such  daily  nor  such  weekly  newspaper  is  printed, 
published  and  circulated,  a  copy  of  such  proposed 
charter  shall  be  posted  by  the  county  clerk  in 
three  public  places  in  said  county,  and  on  or  near 
the  entrance  to  at  least  one  public  schoolhouse  in 
each  school  district  in  said  county.  If  a  majority 
of  such  qualified  electors  voting  thereon,  at  such 
general  or  special  election,  shall  vote  in  favor  of 
any  such  proposed  amendment  or  amendments, 
or  any  amendment  or  amendments  proposed  by 
petition  as  hereinafter  provided,  such  amendment 
or  amendments  shall  be  deemed  to  be  ratified, 
and  shall  be  forthwith  submitted  to  the  Legislature, 
if  it  be  in  regular  session,  otherwise  at  its  next 
regular  session,  or  may  be  submitted  to  the 
Legislature  in  extraordinary  session,  for  approval 
or  rejection  as  a  whole,  without  power  of  alteration 


212  APPENDIX  A 

or  amendment,  and  if  approved  by  the  Legislature, 
as  herein  provided  for  the  approval  of  the  charter, 
such  charter  shall  be  amended  accordingly.  A 
copy  of  such  amendment  or  amendments  shall, 
after  the  approval  thereof  by  the  Legislature,  be 
made  in  duplicate,  and  shall  be  authenticated, 
certified,  recorded  and  filed  as  herein  provided  for 
the  charter,  and  with  like  force  and  effect.  When- 
ever a  petition  signed  by  ten  per  centum  of  the 
qualified  electors  of  any  county,  computed  upon 
the  total  number  of  votes  cast  in  said  county  for 
all  candidates  for  Governor  at  the  last  general 
election,  at  which  a  Governor  was  elected,  is  filed 
in  the  office  of  the  county  clerk  of  said  county, 
petitioning  the  board  of  supervisors  thereof  to 
submit  any  proposed  amendment  or  amendments 
to  the  charter  of  such  county,  which  amendment 
or  amendments  shall  be  set  forth  in  full  in  such 
petition,  to  the  qualified  electors  thereof,  such 
petition  shall  forthwith  be  examined  and  certified 
by  the  county  clerk,'  and  if  signed  by  the  requisite 
number  of  qualified  electors  of  such  county,  shall 
be  presented  to  the  said  board  of  supervisors,  by 
the  said  county  clerk,  as  hereinbefore  provided  for 
petitions  for  the  election  of  boards  of  freeholders. 
Upon  the  presentation  of  said  petition  to  said 
board  of  supervisors,  said  board  must  submit  the 
amendment  or  amendments  set  forth  therein  to  the 
qualified  electors  of  said  county  at  a  general  or 
special  election  held  not  less  than  thirty  days  nor 
more  than  sixty  days  after  the  publication  or  post- 
ing of  such  proposed  amendment  or  amendments 
in  the  same  manner  as  hereinbefore  provided  in  the 
case  of  the  submission  of  any  proposed  amendment 
or  amendments  to  such  charter,  proposed  and 
submitted  by  the  board  of  supervisors.  In  sub- 
mitting any  such  charter,  or  amendments  thereto. 


APPENDIX  A  213 

any  alternative  article  or  proposition  may  be 
presented  for  the  choice  of  the  electors,  and  may  be 
voted  on  separately  without  prejudice  to  others. 

Every  special  election  held  under  the  provisions 
of  this  section,  for  the  election  of  boards  of  free- 
holders or  for  the  submission  of  proposed  charters, 
or  any  amendment  or  amendments  thereto,  shall 
be  called  by  the  board  of  supervisors,  by  ordinance, 
which  shall  specify  the  purpose  and  time  of  such 
election  and  shall  establish  the  election  precincts 
and  designate  the  polling  places  therein,  and  the 
names  of  the  election  officers  for  each  such  pre- 
cinct. Such  ordinance,  prior  to  such  election, 
shall  be  published  five  times  in  a  daily  newspaper, 
or  twice  in  a  weekly  newspaper,  if  there  be  no 
such  daily  newspaper,  printed,  published  and 
circulated  in  said  county;  provided,  that  if  no  such 
daily  or  weekly  newspaper  be  printed  or  published 
in  such  county,  then  a  copy  of  such  ordinances 
shall  be  posted  by  the  county  clerk  in  three  public 
places  in  such  county  and  in  or  near  the  entrance 
to  at  least  one  public  schoolhouse  in  each  school 
district  therein.  In  all  other  respects,  every  such 
election  shall  be  held  and  conducted,  the  returns 
thereof  canvassed  and  the  result  thereof  declared 
by  the  board  of  supervisors  in  the  same  manner  as 
provided  by  law  for  general  elections.  Whenever 
boards  of  freeholders  shall  be  elected,  or  any  such 
proposed  charter,  or  amendment  or  amendments 
thereto,  submitted,  at  a  general  election,  the 
general  laws  applicable  to  the  election  of  county 
officers  and  the  submission  of  propositions  to  the 
vote  of  electors,  shall  be  followed  in  so  far  as  the 
same  may  be  applicable  thereto. 

It  shall  be  competent,  in  all  charters,  framed 
under  the  authority  given  by  this  section  to  pro- 
vide, in  addition  to  any  other  provisions  allowable 


214  APPENDIX  A 

by  this  constitution,  and  the  same  shall  provide, 
for  the  following  matters: 

1.  For  boards  of  supervisors  and  for  the  con- 
stitution, regulation  and  government  thereof, 
for  the  times  at  which  and  the  terms  for  which 
the  members  of  said  board  shall  be  elected,  for 
the  number  of  members,  not  less  than  three,  that 
shall  constitute  such  boards,  for  their  compensa- 
tion and  for  their  election,  either  by  the  electors 
of  the  counties  at  large  or  by  districts;  provided^ 
that  in  any  event  said  board  shall  consist  of  one 
member  for  each  district,  who  must  be  a  qualified 
elector  thereof;  and 

2.  For  sheriffs,  county  clerks,  treasurers,  re- 
corders, license  collectors,  tax  collectors,  public 
administrators,  coroners,  surveyors,  district  at- 
torneys, auditors,  assessors  and  superintendents 
of  schools,  for  the  election  or  appointment  of  said 
officers,  or  any  of  them,  for  the  times  at  which 
and  the  terms  for  .which,  said  officers  shall  be 
elected  or  appointed,  and  for  their  compensation, 
or  for  the  fixing  of  such  compensation  by  boards  of 
supervisors,  and,  if  appointed,  for  the  manner 
of  their  appointment;  and 

3.  For  the  number  of  justices  of  the  peace  and 
constables  for  each  township,  or  for  the  number  of 
such  judges  and  other  officers  of  such  inferior 
courts  as  may  be  provided  by  the  Constitution 
or  general  law,  for  the  election  or  appointment  of 
said  officers,  for  the  times  at  which  and  the  terms 
for  which  said  officers  shall  be  elected  or  ap- 
pointed, and  for  their  compensations,  or  for  the 
fixing  of  such  compensation  by  boards  of  super- 
visors, and  if  appointed,  for  the  manner  of  their 
appointment ;  and 

4.  For  the  powers  and  duties  of  boards  of 
supervisors  and  all  other  county  officers,  for  their 


APPENDIX  A 


215 


removal  and  for  the  consolidation  and  segregation 
of  county  offices,  and  for  the  manner  of  filling 
all  vacancies  occurring  therein;  provided,  that  the 
provisions  of  such  charters  relating  to  the  powers 
and  duties  of  boards  of  supervisors  and  all  other 
county  officers  shall  be  subject  to  and  controlled 
by  general  laws;  and 

^4>2.  For  the  assumption  and  discharge  by 
county  officers  of  certain  of  the  municipal  functions 
of  the  cities  and  towns  within  the  county,  whenever, 
in  the  case  of  cities  and  towns  incorporated  under 
general  laws,  the  discharge  by  county  officers  of 
such  municipal  functions  is  authorized  by  general 
law,  or  whenever,  in  the  case  of  cities  and  towns 
organized  under  section  eight  of  this  article,  the 
discharge  by  county  officers  of  such  municipal 
functions  is  authorized  by  provisions  of  the 
charters,  or  by  amendments  thereto,  of  such 
cities  or  towns. 

5.  For  the  fixing  and  regulation  by  boards  of 
supervisors,  by  ordinance,  of  the  appointment 
and  number  of  assistants,  deputies,  clerks,  attaches 
and  other  persons  to  be  employed,  from  time  to 
time,  in  the  several  offices  of  the  county,  and  for  the 
prescribing  and  regulating  by  such  boards  of  the 
powers,  duties,  qualifications  and  compensation 
of  such  persons,  the  times  at  which,  and  terms  for 
which  they  shall  be  appointed,  and  the  manner 
of  their  appointment  and  removal ;  and 

6.  For  the  compensation  of  such  fish  and 
game  wardens,  probation  and  other  officers  as 
may  be  provided  by  general  law,  or  for  the  fixing 
of  such  compensation  by  boards  of  supervisors. 

All  elective  officers  of  counties,  and  of  townships, 
of  road  districts  and  of  highway  construction 
divisions  therein  shall  be  nominated  and  elected 

^  This  paragraph  was  adopted  as  an  amendment,  Nov.  3,  19 14. 


2i6  APPENDIX  A 

in  the  manner  provided  by  general  laws  for  the 
nomination  and  election  of  such  officers. 

All  charters  framed  under  the  authority  given 
by  this  section,  in  addition  to  the  matters  herein 
above  specified,  may  provide  as  follows: 

For  offices  other  than  those  required  by  the 
Constitution  and  laws  of  the  State,  or  for  the 
creation  of  any  or  all  of  such  offices  by  boards  of 
supervisors,  for  the  election  or  appointment  of 
persons  to  fill  such  offices,  for  the  manner  of  such 
appointment,  for  the  times  at  which  and  the  terms 
for  which  such  persons  shall  be  so  elected  or 
appointed,  and  for  their  compensation,  or  for 
the  fixing  of  such  compensation  by  boards  of 
supervisors. 

For  offices  hereafter  created  by  this  constitution 
or  by  general  law,  for  the  election  or  appointment 
of  persons  to  fill  such  offices,  for  the  manner  of  such 
appointment,  for  the  times  at  which  and  the  terms 
for  which  such  persons  shall  be  so  elected  or  ap- 
pointed, and  for  their  compensation,  or  for  the  fixing 
of  such  compensation  by  boards  of  supervisors. 

For  the  formation,  in  such  counties,  of  road 
districts  for  the  care,  maintenance,  repair,  inspec- 
tion and  supervision  only  of  roads,  highways  and 
bridges;  and  for  the  formation,  in  such  counties, 
of  highway  construction  divisions  for  the  con- 
struction only  of  roads,  highways  and  bridges; 
for  the  inclusion  in  any  such  district  or  division, 
of  the  whole  or  any  part  of  any  incorporated 
city  or  town,  upon  ordinance  passed  by  such  in- 
corporated city  or  town  authorizing  the  same, 
and  upon  the  assent  to  such  inclusion  by  a  major- 
ity of  the  qualified  electors  of  such  incorporated 
city  or  town,  or  portion  thereof,  proposed  to  be  so 
included,  at  an  election  held  for  that  purpose;  for 
the  organization,  government,  powers  and  jurisdic- 


APPENDIX  A  217 

tion  of  such  districts  and  divisions,  and  for  raising 
revenue  therein,  for  such  purposes,  by  taxation, 
upon  the  assent  of  a  majority  of  the  quahfied 
electors  of  such  districts  or  divisions,  voting  at  an 
election  to  be  held  for  that  purpose;  for  the  incur- 
ring of  indebtedness  therefor  by  such  counties, 
districts  or  divisions  for  such  purposes  respectively, 
by  the  issuance  and  sale,  by  the  counties,  of  bonds 
of  such  counties,  districts  or  divisions,  and  the 
expenditure  of  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  such 
bonds,  and  for  levying  and  collecting  taxes  against 
the  property  of  the  counties,  districts  or  divisions, 
as  the  case  may  be,  for  the  payment  of  the  princi- 
pal and  interest  of  such  indebtedness  at  maturity; 
provided,  that  any  such  indebtedness  shall  not  be 
incurred  without  the  assent  of  two  thirds  of  the 
qualified  electors  of  the  county,  district  or  division, 
as  the  case  may  be,  voting  at  an  election  to  be  held 
for  that  purpose,  nor  unless  before  or  at  the  time 
of  incurring  such  indebtedness  provision  shall  be 
made  for  the  collection  of  an  annual  tax  sufficient 
to  pay  the  interest  on  such  indebtedness  as  it 
falls  due,  and  also  for  a  sinking  fund  for  the 
payment  of  the  principal  thereof  on  or  before 
maturity,  which  shall  not  exceed  forty  years  from 
the  time  of  contracting  the  same,  and  the  pro- 
cedure for  voting,  issuing  and  selling  such  bonds 
shall,  except  in  so  far  as  the  same  shall  be  pre- 
scribed in  such  charters,  conform  to  general  laws 
for  the  authorizing  and  incurring  by  counties  of 
bonded  indebtedness,  so  far  as  applicable;  pro- 
vided, further,  that  provisions  in  such  charters 
for  the  construction,  care,  maintenance,  repair, 
inspection  and  supervision  of  roads,  highways  and 
bridges  for  which  aid  from  the  State  is  granted, 
shall  be  subject  to  such  regulations  and  conditions 
as  may  be  imposed  by  the  Legislature. 


2i8  APPENDIX  A 

Whenever  any  county  has  framed  and  adopted 
a  charter,  and  the  same  shall  have  been  approved 
by  the  Legislature,  as  herein  provided,  the  general 
laws  adopted  by  the  Legislature  in  pursuance  of 
sections  four  and  five  of  this  article,  shall,  as  to 
such  county,  be  superseded  by  said  charter  as  to 
matters  for  which,  under  this  section  it  is  com- 
petent to  make  provision  in  such  charter,  and  for 
which  provision  is  made  therein,  except  as  herein 
otherwise  expressly  provided;  and  except  that  any 
such  charter  shall  not  affect  the  tenure  of  office 
of  the  elective  officers  of  the  county,  or  of  any 
district,  township  or  division  thereof,  in  office  at 
the  time  such  charter  goes  into  effect,  and  such 
officers  shall  continue  to  hold  their  respective  of- 
fices until  the  expiration  of  the  term  for  which 
they  shall  have  been  elected,  unless  sooner  removed 
in  the  manner  provided  by  law. 

The  charter  of  any  county,  adopted  under  the 
authority  of  this  section,  may  be  surrendered  and 
annulled  with  the  assent  of  two  thirds  of  the  quali- 
fied electors  of  such  county,  voting  at  a  special 
election,  held  for  that  purpose,  and  to  be  ordered 
and  called  by  the  board  of  supervisors  of  the  county 
upon  receiving  a  written  petition,  signed  and  cer- 
tified as  hereinabove  provided  for  the  purposes  of 
the  adoption  of  charters,  requesting  said  board  to 
submit  the  question  of  the  surrender  and  annul- 
ment of  such  charter  to  the  qualified  electors  of 
such  county,  and,  in  the  event  of  the  surrender 
and  annulment  of  any  such  charter,  such  county 
shall  thereafter  be  governed  under  general  laws  in 
force  for  the  government  of  counties. 

The  provisions  of  this  section  shall  not  be  ap- 
plicable to  any  county  that  is  consolidated  with 
any  city. 


APPENDIX  B 

THE  LOS  ANGELES  COUNTY  CHARTER 

[This  was  the  first  charter  to  be  drafted  and 
adopted  by  the  people  of  a  county  under  the 
amendment  of  the  California  constitution  {q.  v.). 
For  summary  and  comment  on  its  provisions 
see  pp.  172-173.  Date  of  adoption:  Nov.  7, 
1912.] 

We  the  people  of  the  County  of  Los  Angeles, 
do  ordaini  and  establish  for  its  government  this 

CHARTER 

ARTICLE  I. 

Name  and  Rights  of  the  County 

Sec.  I :  The  County  of  Los  Angeles,  as  it  now 
exists,  is  a  body  corporate  and  politic,  and  as  such 
has  all  the  powers  specified  by  the  constitution  and 
laws  of  the  State  of  California,  and  by  this  Charter, 
and  such  other  powers  as  are  necessarily  implied. 

Sec.  2 :  The  powers  mentioned  in  the  preceding 
section  can  be  exercised  only  by  a  Board  of  Super- 
visors, or  by  agents  and  officers  acting  under  their 
authority  or  by  authority  of  law  or  of  this  Charter. 

Sec.  3:  The  corporate  name  shall  be  "County 
of  Los  Angeles,"  which  must  be  thus  designated 

219 


220  APPENDIX  B 

in  all  actions  and  proceedings  touching  its  corpor- 
ate rights,  properties  and  duties.  Its  boundaries 
and  county  seat  shall  remain  the  same  as  they 
now  are,  until  otherwise  changed  by  law. 

ARTICLE  II. 

Board  of  Supervisors 

Sec.  4:  The  County  of  Los  Angeles  shall  have 
a  Board  of  Supervisors  consisting  of  five  members, 
each  of  whom  must  be  an  elector  of  the  district 
which  he  represents,  must  reside  therein  during 
his  incumbency,  must  have  been  such  an  elector 
for  at  least  one  year  immediately  preceding  his 
election,  and  shall  be  elected  by  such  district. 
Their  terms  of  office  shall  be  four  years,  each  shall 
hold  until  his  successor  is  elected  and  qualified, 
and  they  shall  each  receive  a  salary  of  $5000  per 
year  payable  monthly  from  the  County  Treasury. 
They  shall  devote  all  their  time  during  business 
hours  to  the  faithful  service  of  the  public. 

Sec.  5 :  The  County  is  hereby  divided  into  five 
supervisor  districts,  the  boundaries  of  which  shall 
be  and  remain  as  they  now  are  until  otherwise 
changed  as  provided  in  this  Charter. 

Sec.  6:  At  the  general  election  to  be  held  in 
November,  19 14,  supervisors  shall  be  elected 
from  the  First  and  Third  Supervisor  districts, 
whose  terms  shall  begin  at  noon  on  the  first 
Monday  after  the  first  day  of  January,  191 5,  and 
end  at  noon  on  the  first  Monday  in  December, 
191 8;  provided,  that  each  shall  hold  office  until  his 
successor  is  elected  and  qualified. 

At  the  general  election  to  be  held  in  November, 
1916,  supervisors  shall  be  elected  from  the  Second, 
Fourth  and  Fifth  districts,  whose  terms  shall  begin 


APPENDIX  B  221 

at  noon  on  the  first  Monday  after  the  first  day 
of  January,  191 7,  and  end  at  noon  on  the  first 
Monday  in  December,  1920;  provided,  that  each 
shall  hold  office  uatil  his  successor  is  elected  and 
qualified. 

At  each  general  election  after  November, 
1 91 6,  there  shall  be  elected,  either  two  or  three 
supervisors,  as  the  case  may  be,  for  terms  of  four 
years,  beginning  at  noon  on  the  first  Monday  in 
December  next  after  their  election,  and  ending 
at  noon  on  the  first  Monday  in  December,  four 
years  thereafter. 

Sec.  7:  The  Board  of  Supervisors  may,  by  a 
two-thirds  vote  of  its  members,  change  the  boun- 
d^aries  of  any  supervisor  district.  No  such 
boundaries  shall  ever  be  so  changed  as  to  affect 
the  incumbency  in  office  of  any  supervisor.  Any 
change  in  the  boundaries  of  any  supervisor  district 
must  be  made  within  one  year  after  a  general 
election. 

Sec.  8:  Whenever  a  vacancy  occurs  in  the 
Board  of  Supervisors  the  Governor  shall  fill  such 
vacancy,  and  the  appointee  shall  hold  office  until 
the  election  and  qualification  of  his  successor. 
In  such  case,  a  Supervisor  shall  be  elected  at  the 
next  general  election,  to  fill  the  vacancy  for  the 
unexpired  term,  unless  such  term  expires  on 
the  first  Monday  in  December  succeeding  said 
election. 

Sec.  9:  The  Board  of  Supervisors  shall  elect 
a  Chairman,  who  shall  preside  at  all  meetings. 
In  case  of  his  absence  or  inability  to  act,  the 
members  present  must,  by  an  order  entered  of 
record,  select  one  of  their  number  to  act  as  Chair- 
man pro  tern.  Any  member  of  the  Board  may 
administer  oaths,  when  necessary  in  the  perform- 
ance  of   his   official   duties.     A   majority   of   the 


222  APPENDIX  B 

members  shall  constitute  a  quorum,  and  no  act  of 
the  Board  shall  be  valid  or  binding  unless  a  major- 
ity of  the  members  concur. 

ARTICLE  III. 

General  Powers  of  the  Board  oj  Supervisors 

Sec.  10 :  The  Board  of  Supervisors  shall  have 
all  the  jurisdiction  and  power  which  are  now  or 
which  may  hereafter  be  granted  by  the  constitu- 
tion and  laws  of  the  State  of  California  or  by  this 
Charter. 

Sec.  1 1 :  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Board  of 
Supervisors : 

(i)  To  appoint  all  county  officers  other  than 
elective  officers,  and  all  officers,  assistants,  depu- 
ties, clerks,  attaches  and  employees  whose  appoint- 
ment is  not  provided  for  by  this  Charter.  Except 
in  the  cases  of  appointees  to  the  unclassified  ser- 
vice, all  appointments  by  the  Board  shall  be  from 
the  eligible  civil  service  list.  The  Board  shall 
provide,  by  ordinance,  for  the  compensation  of 
elective  officers  and  of  its  appointees,  unless  such  . 
compensation  is  otherwise  fixed  by  this  Charter. 

(2)  To  provide,  by  ordinance,  for  the  number 
of  Justices  of  the  Peace  and  Constables,  to  be 
elected  and  appointed,  respectively,  in  each 
Township.  The  Board  may  also  provide,  by 
ordinance,  for  the  number  and  fix  the  compensa- 
tion, of  such  other  judges  and  inferior  officers  of 
such  inferior  courts  as  are  now,  or  may  hereafter 
be,  provided  by  the  constitution  or  by  general 
law. 

(3)  To  provide,  by  ordinance,  for  the  number 
of  assistants,  deputies,  clerks,  attaches  and  other 
persons  to  be  employed  from  time  to  time  in  the 


APPENDIX  B  223 

several  offices  and  Institutions  of  the  county,  and 
for  their  compensation  and  the  times  at  which  they 
shall  be  appointed. 

(4)  To  provide,  by  ordinance,  for  the  creation 
of  offices  other  than  those  required  by  the  constitu- 
tion and  laws  of  the  State,  and  for  the  appoint- 
ment of  persons  to  fill  the  same,  and  to  fix  their 
compensation. 

(5)  To  require,  if  deemed  expedient,  any  county 
or  township  officer,  or  employee,  before  or  after 
entering  upon  the  duties  of  his  office,  or  service,  to 
give  bond  for  the  faithful  performance  thereof, 
in  such  penal  sum  as  may  be  fixed  by  the  Board. 

(6)  To  provide,  publish  and  enforce,  a  complete 
code  of  rules,  not  inconsistent  with  general  laws 
or  this  Charter,  prescribing  in  detail  the  duties, 
and  the  systems  of  office  and  institutional  manage- 
ment, accounts  and  reports  for  each  of  the  offices, 
institutions  and  departments  of  the  county. 

ARTICLE  IV. 

County  Officers  Other  Than  Supervisors 

Sec.  12:  The  elective  county  officers  other 
than  members  of  the  Board  of  Supervisors  shall 
be:   Sheriff,  District  Attorney  and  Assessor. 

Sec.  13:  At  the  general  election  to  be  held  in 
November,  19 14,  a  District  Attorney  shall  be 
elected,  whose  term  shall  begin  at  noon  on  the  first 
Monday  after  the  first  day  of  January,  1915,  and 
end  at  noon  on  the  first  Monday  in  December, 
1916.  At  the  same  election  a  Sheriff  and  Assessor 
shall  be  elected,  whose  terms  shall  begin  at  the 
same  time  and  end  at  noon  on  the  first  Monday 
in  December,  191 8.  At  the  general  election  to  be 
held  in  November,    1916,   and  every  four  years 


224  APPENDIX  B 

thereafter,  a  District  Attorney  shall  be  elected, 
whose  term  shall  be  four  years,  beginning  at  noon 
on  the  first  Monday  in  December  following  his 
election  and  ending  at  noon  on  the  first  Mon- 
day in  December  four  years  thereafter.  At  the 
general  election  to  be  held  in  November,  191 8, 
and  every  four  years  thereafter,  a  Sheriff  and 
Assessor  shall  be  elected,  whose  terms  shall  be 
four  years,  beginning  at  noon  on  the  first  Monday 
in  December  following  their  election,  and  ending 
at  noon  on  the  first  Monday  in  December,  four 
years  thereafter.  All  elective  county  officers  shall 
hold  office  until  their  successors  are  elected  and 
qualified. 

Sec.  14:  The  appointive  county  officers  shall 
be: 

Auditor. 

Board  of  Education,  Members  of. 

Board  of  Law  Library  Trustees,  Members  of. 

Civil  Service  Commission,  Members  of. 

Coroner. 

County  Clerk.  1 

County  Counsel. 

Fish  and  Game  Warden. 

Health  Officer. 

Horticultural  Commissioner. 

License  Collector. 

Live  Stock  Inspector. 

Probation  Committee,  Members  of. 

Probation  Officer. 

Public  Administrator. 

Public  Defender. 

Purchasing  Agent. 

Recorder. 

Registrar  of  Voters. 

Road  Commissioner. 

Superintendent  of  Charities. 


APPENDIX  B  225 

Superintendent  of  Schools. 

Surveyor. 

Tax  Collector. 

Treasurer. 

Such  other  officers  as  may  hereafter  be  provided 
by  law  shall  also  be  appointive. 

The  Tax  Collector  shall  be  ex-officio  License 
Collector. 

Sec.  15:  All  fees  collected  by  any  county 
officer,  Board  or  Commission  shall  be  paid  into 
the  County  Treasury  on  the  first  Monday  of  each 
calendar  month,  together  with  a  detailed  statement 
of  the  same  in  writing,  a  duplicate  copy  of  which 
shall  be  filed  with  the  Auditor  at  the  same  time. 

Sec.  16:  Whenever  a  vacancy  occurs  in  an 
elective  county  office  other  than  a  member  of  the 
Board  of  Supervisors,  the  Board  shall  fill  such 
vacancy,  and  the  appointee  shall  hold  office  until 
the  election  and  qualification  of  his  successor. 
In  such  case,  there  shall  be  elected  at  the  next 
general  election  an  officer  to  fill  such  vacancy  for 
the  unexpired  term,  unless  such  term  expires  on 
the  first  Monday  in  December  succeeding  said 
election. 

ARTICLE  V. 

Township  Officers 

Sec  17:  The  Board  of  Supervisors  must  pro- 
vide, by  ordinance,  for  not  less  than  one  Justice 
of  the  Peace  and  one  Constable  in  each  township, 
and  may  provide  for  more  in  townships  where 
population  and  the  business  therein  require  a 
greater  number;  provided,  that,  until  the  Board 
shall  so  provide  for  such  Justices  of  the  Peace  and 
Constables,  the  number  of  each  thereof  in  each 

IS 


226  APPENDIX  B 

township  shall  continue  as  now  or  hereafter 
provided  by  law;  provided,  further,  that  if  the 
Legislature  shall  hereafter,  instead  of  the  system 
of  Courts  of  Justice  of  the  Peace  now  established 
by  law,  substitute  some  other  system  of  inferior 
courts,  then  and  in  that  event,  it  shall  not  be 
compulsory  upon  the  Board  of  Supervisors  to 
provide  any  number  for,  and  the  Board  may 
discontinue  the  existence  of  all  Justices  of  the 
Peace  in  the  several  townships,  if  such  discontinu- 
ance be  allowed  by  law,  and  the  Board  may 
provide  for  such  number  of  inferior  Judges  or 
Justices  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  needs  of  the 
county  under  such  substituted  system. 

Sec.  i8:  Justices  of  the  Peace  shall  be  nomi- 
nated and  elected  at  the  times  and  in  the  manner 
and  for  the  terms,  now  or  hereafter  provided  by 
general  law.  Constables  shall  be  appointed  by 
the  Sheriff  from  the  eligible  civil  service  list. 

Sec.  19:  The  compensation  of  Justices  of  the 
Peace  and  of  Constables  shall  be  fixed  by  the 
Board  of  Supervisors,  and  must  be  by  salary  only, 
which  need  not  be  uniform  for  the  several  town- 
ships, nor  proportionate  to  population  therein. 
Their  duties  and  qualifications  shall  be  such  as 
are  now,  or  which  may  hereafter  be  prescribed 
by  law,  or  by  this  Charter. 

Sec.  20:  All  fees  collected  by  any  Justice  of 
the  Peace  or  Constable  shall  be  paid  into  the 
County  Treasury,  on  the  first  Monday  of  each 
calendar  month,  together  with  a  detailed  state- 
ment of  the  same  in  writing,  a  duplicate  copy  of 
which  shall  be  filed  with  the  Auditor  at  the  same 
time.  The  fees  to  be  so  paid  into  the  Treasury  by 
each  Constable  shall  include  all  fees  charged  and 
collected  by  him  for  service  of  any  writ  or  process 
of  any  court  or  for  any  act  or  service  done  or 


APPENDIX  B  227 

rendered  by  him,  or  which  he  has  power  or  which 
it  is  his  duty  to  do  or  render,  in  his  official  capacity ; 
and  every  Constable  shall  enter  in  the  fee  book 
kept  by  him  all  such  fees  charged  and  collected  by 
him  and  pay  the  same  into  the  County  Treasury 
as  above  provided,  without  deduction  for  any  such 
acts  or  services  purporting  or  claimed  to  have  been 
done  or  rendered  by  him  as  a  private  citizen. 

ARTICLE  VI. 

Duties  of  Officers 

Sec.  21:  The  County  Counsel  shall  represent 
and  advise  the  Board  of  Supervisors  and  all 
county,  township  and  school  district  officers,  in  all 
matters  and  questions  of  law  pertaining  to  their 
duties,  and  shall  have  exclusive  charge  and  control 
of  all  civil  actions  and  proceedings  in  which  the 
county,  or  any  officer  thereof,  is  concerned  or  is 
a  party.  He  shall  also  act  as  attorney  for  the 
Public  Administrator  in  the  matter  of  all  estates 
in  which  such  officer  is  executor,  administrator 
with  the  will  annexed,  or  administrator,  and  the 
County  Counsel  shall,  in  every  such  matter,  col- 
lect the  attorney's  fees  allowed  therein  by  law  and 
pay  the  same  into  the  County  Treasury. 

Sec.  22 :  The  Superintendent  of  Charities  shall 
be  under  the  direction  of  the  Board  of  Supervisors, 
and  shall  exercise  a  general  supervision  over,  and 
enforce  rules  and  regulations  for  the  conduct  and 
government  of,  the  charitable  institutions  of  the 
county.  He  shall  perform  such  other  duties  as 
may  be  prescribed  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors 
or  by  law. 

Sec.  23:  Upon  request  by  the  Defendant  or 
upon  order  of  the  Court,  the  Public  Defender  shall 


228  APPENDIX  B 

defend,  without  expense  to  them,  all  persons  who 
are  not  financially  able  to  employ  counsel  and  who 
are  charged,  in  the  Superior  Court,  with  the  com- 
mission of  any  contempt,  misdemeanor,  felony 
or  other  offense.  He  shall  also,  upon  request, 
give  counsel  and  advice  to  such  persons,  in  and 
about  any  charge  against  them  upon  which  he  is 
conducting  the  defense,  and  he  shall  prosecute  all 
appeals  to  a  higher  court  or  courts,  of  any  person 
who  has  been  convicted  upon  any  such  charge, 
where,  in  his  opinion,  such  appeal  will,  or  might 
reasonably  be  expected  to,  result  in  a  reversal  or 
modification  of  the  judgment  of  conviction. 

He  shall  also,  upon  request,  prosecute  actions 
for  the  collection  of  wages  and  of  other  demands  of 
persons  who  are  not  financially  able  to  employ 
counsel,  in  cases  in  which  the  sum  involved  does 
not  exceed  $ioo,  and  in  which,  in  the  judgment  of 
the  Public  Defender,  the  claims  urged  are  valid  and 
enforceable  in  the  courts. 

He  shall  also,  upon  request,  defend  such  persons 
in  all  civil  litigation  in  which,  in  his  judgment, 
they  are  being  persecuted  or  unjustly  harassed. 

The  costs  in  all  actions  in  which  the  Public 
Defender  shall  appear  under  this  section,  whether 
for  plaintiffs  or  for  defendants,  shall  be  paid  from 
the  County  Treasury,  at  the  times  and  in  the 
manner  required  by  law,  or  by  rules  of  court,  and 
under  a  system  of  demand,  audit  and  payment, 
which  shall  be  prescribed  by  the  Board  of  Super- 
visors. It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Public  Defender, 
in  all  such  litigation,  to  procure,  if  possible,  in 
addition  to  general  judgments  in  favor  of  the 
persons  whom  he  shall  represent  therein,  judgments 
for  costs  and  attorney's  fees,  where  permissible, 
against  the  opponents  of  such  persons,  and  collect 
and  pay  the  same  into  the  County  Treasury. 


APPENDIX  B  229 

Sec.  24 :  Subject  to  rules  and  regulations  which 
shall  be  adopted  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors,  by 
ordinance,  the  Purchasing  Agent  shall  be  the 
buyer  of  furniture,  fixtures,  tools,  supplies,  ma- 
terials or  other  articles  of  personal  property  for  the 
county  and  for  county,  township  and  all  other 
officers. 

Sec.  25:  Each  county  or  township  officer, 
Board  or  Commission  shall  have  the  powers  and 
perform  the  duties  now  or  hereafter  prescribed 
by  general  law,  and  by  this  Charter,  as  to  such 
officer,  Board  or  Commission. 

ARTICLE  VII. 

Road  Department 

Sec  26:  The  Board  of  Supervisors  may  pro- 
vide for  the  formation  of  road  districts  for  the  care, 
maintenance,  repair  and  supervision  of  roads, 
highways  and  bridges;  and  for  the  formation  of 
highway  construction  divisions  for  the  construction 
of  roads,  highways  and  bridges;  for  the  inclusion 
in  any  such  district  or  division  of  the  whole  or  any 
part  of  any  incorporated  city  or  town  upon  ordi- 
nance passed  by  such  incorporated  city  or  town 
authorizing  the  same,  and  upon  the  assent  to  such 
inclusion  by  a  majority  of  the  qualified  electors  of 
such  incorporated  city  or  town  or  portion  thereof 
proposed  to  be  so  included  at  an  election  held  for 
that  purpose;  for  the  organization,  government, 
powers  and  jurisdiction  of  such  district  or  division, 
for  raising  revenue  therein  for  such  purposes,  by 
taxation,  upon  the  assent  of  a  majority  of  the 
qualified  electors  of  such  district  or  division,  voting 
at  an  election  held  for  that  purpose;  for  the  incur- 
ring of  indebtedness  therefor  by  the  county,  district 


230  APPENDIX  B 

or  division  for  such  purposes,  respectively,  by  the 
issuance  and  sale,  by  the  county,  of  bonds  of  the 
county,  district  or  division,  and  the  expenditure 
of  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  such  bonds,  and  for 
levying  and  collecting  taxes  against  the  property  of 
the  county,  district  or  division,  as  the  case  may 
be,  for  the  payment  of  the  principal  and  interest 
of  such  indebtedness  at  maturity;  provided  that 
any  such  indebtedness  shall  not  be  incurred  with- 
out the  assent  of  two-thirds  of  the  qualified  electors 
of  the  county,  district  or  division,  as  the  case  may 
be,  voting  at  an  election  held  for  that  purpose,  nor 
unless  before  or  at  the  time  of  incurring  such  in- 
debtedness, provision  shall  be  made  for  the  collec- 
tion of  an  annual  tax  sufficient  to  pay  the  interest 
on  such  indebtedness  as  it  falls  due,  and  also  for  a 
sinking  fund  for  the  payment  of  the  principal 
thereof  on  or  before  maturity,  which  shall  not 
exceed  forty  years  from  the  time  of  contracting 
the  same;  and  the  procedure  for  voting,  issuing 
and  selling  such  bonds,  except  insofar  as  the  same 
shall  be  otherwise  prescribed  in  this  Charter,  shall 
conform  to  general  laws  for  the  authorizing  and 
incurring  of  bonded  indebtedness  by  counties  so 
far  as  applicable;  provided,  further,  that  the 
construction,  care,  maintenance,  repair  and  super- 
vision of  roads,  highways  and  bridges  for  which 
aid  from  the  state  is  granted  shall  be  subject  to 
such  regulations  and  conditions  as  may  be  imposed 
by  the  Legislature. 

Sec.  27:  The  Road  Commissioner,  subject  to 
such  rules  and  regulations  as  shall  be  prescribed 
by  the  Board  of  Supervisors,  shall  have  direction 
and  control  over  all  work  of  construction,  mainte- 
nance and  repair  of  roads,  highways  and  bridges, 
other  than  work  done  under  contract,  and  it  shall 
be  his  duty  to  examine  and  inspect  contract  work 


APPENDIX  B  231 

as  the  same  progresses  and  to  see  that  the  same 
is  properly  performed,  and  when  completed  to 
file  his  written  approval  thereof  with  the  Board  of 
Supervisors.  He  shall  also  have  the  control  and 
management  of  all  county  rock  quarries  and  gravel 
pits,  and  of  all  other  materials,  property  and 
instrumentalities  necessary  for  and  connected 
with  the  construction,  maintenance  and  repair 
of  roads,  highways  and  bridges. 

ARTICLE   VIII. 

Constabulary  Department 

Sec.  28 :  There  is  hereby  created  a  Constabu- 
lary Department,  consisting  of  the  Sheriff  and  of  all 
Constables,  who  are  hereby  made  ex-officio  Deputy 
Sheriffs. 

Sec.  29:  The  Sheriff  shall  be  the  head  of  said 
Department,  and  shall  so  organize  the  same  as  to 
give  the  county  efficient  and  effective  police  pro- 
tection. Each  Constable  shall  be  subject  to  the 
orders  of  the  Sheriff  and  must  serve  process  within 
his  township,  or  elsewhere,  when  requested,  and 
he  shall  also  perform  all  the  duties  required  of  him 
by  law.   ,v 

ARTICLE    tX. 

Civil  Service 

Sec.  30 :  On  or  before  the  first  day  of  July,  191 3, 
the  Board  of  Supervisors  shall  appoint  three  per- 
sons as  members  of  the  Civil  Service  Commission, 
who  shall  so  classify  themselves  as  that  one  shall 
serve  until  the  first  Monday  in  December,  19 15, 
at  noon,  one  until  the  first  Monday  in  December, 


232  APPENDIX  B 

19 1 7,  at  noon,  and  one  until  the  first  Monday  in 
December,  19 19,  at  noon.  Before  the  first  Mon- 
day in  December  of  each  alternate  year  after 
1913,  the  Board  of  Supervisors  shall  appoint  one 
person  as  the  successor  of  the  member  of  the 
Commission  whose  term  shall  then  expire,  to  serve 
for  six  years.  Any  vacancy  on  the  Commission 
shall  be  filled  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors  for  the 
unexpired  term.  Each  member  of  the  Com- 
mission shall  serve  until  his  successor  is  appointed 
and  qualified.  Not  more  than  one  member  shall 
be  an  adherent  of  the  same  political  party.  No 
member  shall  hold  any  other  salaried  county  office, 
nor  shall  he  have  been,  within  the  year  next  preced- 
ing his  appointment,  an  active  executive  officer  in 
any  political  organization.  Each  member  shall 
have  been  a  resident  of  the  county  for  the  five 
years  next  preceding  his  appointment,  and  his 
name  shall  be  upon  the  state  and  county  assess- 
ment rolls  at  the  time  thereof.  The  Board  of 
Supervisors  by  a  four-fifths  vote  of  all  the  members 
may  remove  a  member  of  the  Commission  during 
his  term  of  office,  but  only  upon  stating  in  writing 
the  reasons  for  such  removal  and  allowing  him  an 
opportunity  to  be  publicly  heard  in  his  own  defense. 
The  Commission  shall  elect  one  of  its  members 
president. 

Sec.  31 :  Each  member  of  the  Commission  shall 
receive  a  compensation  of  Ten  Dollars  for  each 
meeting  thereof  attended  by  him,  not  to  exceed 
five  meetings  in  any  calendar  month.  The  Com- 
mission shall  appoint  and  fix  the  compensation  of  a 
Chief  Examiner,  who  shall  also  act  as  Secretary. 
This  position  shall  be  in  the  competitive  class. 
The  Commission  may  appoint  and  fix  the  com- 
pensation of  such  other  subordinates  as  may  be 
necessary. 


APPENDIX  B  233 

Sec.  32:  For  the  support  of  the  work  of  the 
Commission,  the  Board  of  Supervisors  shall 
annually  levy  and  collect  a  tax  on  all  taxable 
property  in  the  county,  at  the  rate  of  not  less  than 
one-half  of  one  cent  on  each  One  Hundred  Dollars 
of  assessed  valuation  thereof.  Any  part  of  the 
tax  so  levied  for  any  fiscal  year  not  expended 
during  such  fiscal  year,  or  required  to  defray 
expenses  incurred  during  such  year,  shall  on  the 
first  day  of  January  next  succeeding  the  end 
thereof,  be  placed  in  the  general  fund  of  the 
county. 

Sec.  33:  The  Civil  Service  of  the  county  is 
hereby  divided  into  the  unclassified  and  the 
classified  service. 

The  unclassified  service  shall  comprise: 

(a)  All  officers  elected  by  the  people. 

(b)  In  the  ofiice  of  the  District  Attorney: 
The  Chief  and  one  other  deputy,  one  secretary, 
and  three  detectives;  and  special  counsel  and 
special  detectives  for  temporary  employment. 

(c)  In  the  ofiice  of  the  Sheriff:  The  Under 
Sheriff,  or  Chief  Deputy.  In  the  office  of  the 
Assessor:     The  Chief  Deputy. 

(d)  Superintendents,  principals  and  teachers 
in  the  school  system. 

(e)  Members  of  the  County  Board  of  Educa- 
tion. 

(f)  Members  of  the  Civil  Service  Commission. 

(g)  All  officers  and  other  persons  serving  the 
county  without  compensation. 

The  classified  service  shall  include  all  other 
positions  now  existing  or  hereafter  created. 

Sec.  34:  The  Commission  shall  prescribe, 
amend  and  enforce  rules  for  the  classified  service, 


234  APPENDIX  B  - 

which  shall  have  the  force  and  effect  of  law;  shall 
keep  minutes  of  its  proceedings  and  records  of  its 
examinations  and  shall,  as  a  Board  or  through  a 
single  Commissioner,  make  investigations  concern- 
ing the  enforcement  and  effect  of  this  Article  and 
of  the  rules  and  efficiency  of  the  service.  It  shall 
make  an  annual  report  to  the  Board  of  Supervisors. 

The  rules  shall  provide: 

(i)  For  the  classification  of  all  positions  in 
the  classified  service. 

(2)  For  open,  competitive  examinations  to  test 
the  relative  fitness  of  applicants  for  such  positions. 

(3)  For  public  advertisement  of  all  exami- 
nations. 

(4)  For  the  creation  of  eligible  lists  upon  which 
shall  be  entered  the  names  of  successful  candidates 
in  the  order  of  their  standing  in  examination. 
Such  lists  shall  remain  in  force  not  longer  than 
two  years. 

(5)  For  the  rejection  of  candidates  or  eligibles 
who  fail  to  comply  with  the  reasonable  require- 
ments of  the  Commission  in  regard  to  age,  resi- 
dence, sex,  physical  condition  or  who  have  been 
guilty  of  crime  or  of  infamous  or  disgraceful  con- 
duct or  who  have  attempted  any  deception  or 
fraud  in  connection  with  an  examination. 

(6)  For  the  appointment  of  one  of  the  three 
persons  standing  highest  on  the  appropriate  list. 

(7)  For  a  period  of  probation  not  to  exceed 
six  months  before  appointment  or  promotion  is 
made  complete,  during  which  period  a  probationer 
may  be  discharged  or  reduced  with  the  consent  of 
the  Commission. 

(8)  For  non-competitive  examinations  for 
minor  positions  in  the  county  institutions  when 
competition  is  found  to  be  impracticable. 


APPENDIX  B  235 

(9)  For  temporary  employment  of  persons  on 
the  eligible  list  until  list  of  the  class  covering  the 
temporary  employment  is  exhausted;  and  in  cases 
of  emergency,  for  temporary  employment  without 
examination,  with  the  consent  of  the  Commission, 
after  the  eligible  list  has  been  exhausted.  But  no 
such  temporary  employment  shall  continue  longer 
than  sixty  days,  nor  shall  successive  temporary 
appointments  be  allowed.  Nor  shall  the  accept- 
ance or  refusal  to  accept  such  temporary  appoint- 
ment on  the  part  of  a  person  on  the  eligible  list 
be  a  bar  to  appointment  to  a  permanent  position 
from  said  eligible  list. 

(10)  For  transfer  from  one  position  to  a  similar 
position  in  the  same  class  and  grade  and  for 
reinstatement  within  one  year  of  persons  who 
without  fault  or  delinquency  on  their  part  are 
separated  from  the  service  or  reduced. 

(11)  For  promotion  based  on  competitive 
examination  and  records  of  efficiency,  character, 
conduct  and  seniority.  Lists  shall  be  created  and 
promotion  made  therefrom  in  the  same  manner 
as  prescribed  for  original  appointment.  An  ad- 
vancement in  rank  or  an  increase  in  salary  beyond 
the  limit  fixed  for  the  grade  by  the  rules  shall 
constitute  promotion.  Whenever  practicable,  va- 
cancies shall  be  filled  by  promotion. 

(12)  For  suspensions  for  not  longer  than  thirty 
days  and  for  leaves  of  absence. 

(13)  For  discharge  or  reduction  in  rank  or 
compensation  after  appointment  of  promotion  is 
complete,  only  after  the  person  to  be  discharged 
or  reduced  has  been  presented  with  the  reasons 
for  such  discharge  or  reduction,  specifically  stated 
and  has  been  allowed  a  reasonable  time  to  reply 
thereto  in  writing.  The  reasons  and  the  reply 
must  be  filed  as  a  record  with  the  Commission. 


236  APPENDIX   B 

(14)  For  the  appointment  of  unskilled  laborers 
and  such  skilled  laborers  as  the  Commission  may 
determine  in  the  order  of  priority  of  application 
after  such  tests  of  fitness  as  the  Commission  may 
prescribe. 

(15)  For  the  establishment  of  a  bureau  of 
efficiency,  consisting  of  the  Commission,  the  Sec- 
retary thereof  and  the  Auditor,  for  the  purpose 
of  determining  the  duties  of  each  position  in  the 
classified  service,  fixing  standards  of  efficiency, 
investigating  the  methods  of  operation  of  the 
various  departments,  and  recommending  to  the 
Board  of  Supervisors  and  department  heads 
measures  for  increasing  individual,  group  and 
departmental  efficiency,  and  providing  for  uni- 
formity of  competition  and  simplicity  of  operation. 
The  Commission  shall  ascertain  and  record  the 
comparative  efficiency  of  employes  in  the  classified 
service  and  shall  have  power,  after  hearing,  to 
dismiss  from  the  service  those  who  fall  below  the 
standard  of  efficiency  established. 

(16)  For  the  adoption  and  amendment  of  rules 
only  after  public  notice  and  hearing. 

The  Commission  shall  adopt  such  other  rules, 
not  inconsistent  with  the  foregoing  provisions 
of  this  section,  as  may  be  necessary  and  proper 
for  the  enforcement  of  this  Article. 

Sec.  35:  In  case  of  a  vacancy  in  a  position 
requiring  peculiar  and  exceptional  qualifications 
of  a  scientific,  professional  or  expert  character, 
upon  satisfactory  evidence  that  competition  is 
impracticable  and  that  the  position  can  best  be 
filled  by  the  selection  of  some  designated  person 
of  recognized  attainments,  the  Commission  may, 
after  public  hearing  and  by  the  affirmative  vote  of 
all  three  members  of  the  Commission,  suspend 
competition,    but    no    such    suspension    shall    be 


APPENDIX  B  237 

general  in  its  application  to  such  positions,  and  all 
such  cases  of  suspension  shall  be  reported,  together 
with  the  reason  therefor,  in  the  annual  reports  of 
the  Commission. 

Sec.  36:  All  examinations  shall  be  impartial 
and  shall  deal  with  the  duties  and  requirements  of 
the  position  to  be  filled.  When  oral  tests  are  used, 
a  record  of  the  examination,  showing  basis  of 
rating,  shall  be  made.  Examinations  shall  be  in 
charge  of  the  chief  examiner  except  when  members 
of  the  commission  act  as  examiners.  The  com- 
mission may  call  on  other  persons  to  draw  up,  con- 
duct or  mark  examinations,  and  when  such  persons 
are  connected  with  the  county  service  it  shall  be 
deemed  a  part  of  their  official  duties  to  act  as 
examiners  without  extra  compensation. 

Sec.  37 :  All  persons  in  the  county  or  township 
service  holding  positions  in  the  classified  service 
as  established  by  this  Article,  at  the  time  it  takes 
effect,  whether  holding  by  election  or  by  appoint- 
ment, and  who  shall  have  been  in  such  service 
for  the  six  months  next  preceding  shall  hold  their 
positions  until  discharged,  reduced,  promoted  or 
transferred  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
this  Article.  The  Commission  shall  maintain  a 
civil  list  of  all  persons  in  the  county  service,  show- 
ing in  connection  with  each  name  the  position 
held,  the  date  and  character  of  every  appointment 
and  of  every  subsequent  change  in  status.  Each 
appointing  officer  shall  promptly  transmit  to  the 
Commission  all  information  required  for  the  es- 
tablishment and  maintenance  of  said  civil  list. 

Sec.  38:  The  Auditor  shall  not  approve  any 
salary  or  compensation  for  services  to  any  person 
holding  or  performing  the  duties  of  a  position  in  the 
classified  service,  unless  the  payroll  or  account  for 
such  salary  or  compensation  shall  bear  the  certifi- 


238  APPENDIX  B 

cate  of  the  Commission  that  the  persons  named 
therein  have  been  appointed  or  employed  and  are 
performing  service  in  accordance  with  the  provi- 
sions of  this  Article  and  of  the  rules  established 
thereunder. 

Sec.  39:  Charges  against  any  person  in  the 
classified  service  may  be  made  to  the  Commission 
by  any  elector  of  the  county,  such  charges  to  be 
in  writing. 

Sec.  40 :  In  any  investigation  conducted  by  the 
Commission  it  shall  have  the  power  to  subpoena 
and  require  the  attendance  of  witnesses  and  the 
production  thereby  of  books  and  papers  pertinent 
to  the  investigation  and  each  Commissioner  shall 
have  the  power  to  administer  oaths  to  such 
witnesses. 

Sec.  41 :  No  person  in  the  classified  service, 
or  seeking  admission  thereto,  shall  be  appointed, 
reduced  or  removed  or  in  any  way  favored  or 
discriminated  against  because  of  his  political 
or  religious  opinions  or  affiliations. 

Sec.  42:  No  officer  or  employe  of  the  county, 
in  the  classified  service,  shall,  directly  or  in- 
directly, solicit  or  receive,  or  be  in  any  manner 
concerned  in  soliciting  or  receiving,  any  assess- 
ment, subscription  or  contribution  for  any  political 
party  or  political  purpose  whatever.  No  person 
shall,  orally  or  by  letter,  solicit,  or  be  in  any  man- 
ner concerned  in  soliciting,  any  assessment,  sub- 
scription or  contribution  for  any  political  party 
or  purpose  whatever  from  any  person  holding  a 
position  in  the  classified  service. 

Sec.  43:  No  person  holding  a  position  in  the 
classified  service  shall  take  any  part  in  political 
management  or  affairs  or  in  political  campaigns 
further  than  to  cast  his  vote  and  to  express 
privately  his  opinions. 


APPENDIX  B  239 

Sec.  44:  Any  person  willfully  violating  any  of 
the  provisions  of  this  Article  or  of  the  rules  estab- 
lished thereunder,  shall  be  guilty  of  a  misdemeanor. 

ARTICLE    X. 

Lahor 

Sec.  45:  In  the  employment  of  persons  in  the 
service  of  the  county,  where  sex  does  not  actually 
disqualify  and  where  the  quality  and  quantity  of 
service  is  equal,  there  shall  be  no  discrimination  in 
selection  or  compensation,  on  account  of  sex. 

Sec.  46:  Eight  hours  shall  constitute  a  day's 
work  for  mechanics  and  others  engaged  in  manual 
labor  in  the  service  of  the  county. 

Sec.  47:  In  fixing  compensation  to  be  paid  to 
persons  under  the  classified  civil  service,  the  Board 
of  Supervisors  shall,  in  each  instance,  provide  a 
salary  or  wage  at  least  equal  to  the  prevailing 
salary  or  wage  for  the  same  quality  of  service 
rendered  to  private  persons,  firms  or  corporations 
under  similar  employment  in  case  such  prevailing 
salary  or  wage  can  be  ascertained. 

Sec.  48 :  Every  person  who  shall  have  been  in 
the  service  of  the  county,  continuously,  for  one 
year,  shall  be  allowed  a  vacation  of  two  weeks  on 
full  pay,  annually. 

Sec.  49:  The  Board  of  Supervisors  shall 
prohibit  enforced  labor  without  compensation  as 
a  penalty  for  the  commission  of  public  offenses. 
The  net  earnings  of  all  county  prisoners,  based 
upon  reasonable  compensation  for  services  per- 
formed, shall  go  to  the  support  of  their  dependents, 
and  if  such  prisoners  have  no  dependents,  such 
net  earnings  shall  accumulate  and  be  paid  to  them 
upon  their  discharge. 


240  APPENDIX  B 

ARTICLE  XI. 

Recall 

Sec.  50 :  The  holder  of  any  elective  or  appoin- 
tive county  or  township  office  may  be  recalled  by 
the  electors  at  any  time  after  he  has  held  his  office 
six  months.  The  provisions  of  this  Article  shall 
apply  to  officials  now  in  office,  and  to  those  here- 
after elected  or  appointed.  Such  recall  shall  be 
affected  as  follows:  A  petition  demanding  the 
election  or  appointment  of  a  successor  to  the  per- 
son sought  to  be  recalled  shall  be  filed  with  the 
Registrar  of  Voters,  which  petition  shall  be  signed 
by  qualified  voters  equal  in  number  to  at  least 
fifteen  per  cent,  of  the  entire  vote  cast  within  the 
county  for  all  candidates  for  the  office  of  Governor 
of  the  state  at  the  last  preceding  election  at  which 
a  Governor  was  elected  (or  at  least  twenty-five 
per  cent,  of  such  vote  cast  within  the  district  or 
township  for  which  the  officer  sought  to  be  recalled 
was  elected  or  appointed,  in  case  of  an  official  not 
elected  by  or  appointed  for  the  county)  and  shall 
contain  a  statement  of  the  grounds  on  which  the 
recall  is  sought.  No  insufficiency  of  form  or  sub- 
stance in  such  statement  shall  affect  the  validity 
of  the  election  and  proceedings  held  thereunder. 
The  signatures  to  the  petition  need  not  all  be  ap- 
pended to  one  paper.  Each  signer  shall  add  to 
his  signature  his  place  of  occupation  and  residence, 
giving  street  and  number  or  if  no  street  or  number 
exist,  then  such  a  designation  of  his  residence  as 
will  enable  the  location  to  be  readily  ascertained. 
To  each  separate  paper  of  such  petition  shall  be 
attached  an  affidavit  made  by  a  qualified  elector 
of  the  county,  stating  that  the  affiant  circulated 
that  particular  paper  and  saw  written  the  signa- 


APPENDIX  B  241 

tures  appended  thereto,  and  that,  according  to  the 
information  and  behef  of  the  affiant,  each  of  said 
signatures  is  genuine,  and  the  signature  of  a 
quahfied  elector  of  the  county  (or  particular  sub- 
division thereof  in  which  such  signers  are  hereby 
required  to  reside).  Within  ten  days  from  the 
filing  of  such  petition,  the  Registrar  of  Voters  shall, 
from  the  records  of  registration,  determine  whether 
or  not  said  petition  is  signed  by  the  requisite 
number  of  qualified  voters,  and  he  shall  attach  to 
said  petition  his  certificate  showing  such  deter- 
mination. If  such  certificate  shows  the  petition 
to  be  insufficient,  it  may  be  supplemented  within 
ten  days  from  the  date  of  the  certificate  by  the 
filing  of  additional  papers,  duplicates  of  the 
original  petition  except  as  to  the  names  signed. 
The  Registrar  of  Voters  shall,  within  ten  days 
after  such  additional  papers  are  filed,  ascertain 
from  the  records  of  registration,  and  certify 
whether  or  not  the  names  to  such  petition,  includ- 
ing such  additional  papers,  are  still  insufficient, 
and  if  insufficient,  no  action  shall  be  taken  there- 
on ;  but  the  petition  shall  remain  on  file  as  a  public 
record.  The  failure  to  secure  sufficient  names 
shall  not  prejudice  the  filing  later  of  an  entirely 
new  petition  to  the  same  effect.  If  required  by 
the  Registrar  of  Voters,  the  Board  of  Supervisors 
shall  authorize  him  to  employ,  and  shall  provide 
for  the  compensation  of,  persons  necessary  in  the 
examination  of  said  petition  and  supplementing 
petition,  in  addition  to  the  persons  regularly 
employed  by  him  in  his  office.  In  case  the  Regis- 
trar of  Voters  is  the  officer  sought  to  be  recalled, 
the  duties  in  this  Article  provided  to  be  per- 
formed by  him  shall  be  performed  by  the  County 
Clerk.  If  the  petition  shall  be  found  to  be  suffi- 
cient, the  Registrar  of  Voters  shall  submit  the  same 
16 


242  APPENDIX  B 

to  the  Board  of  Supervisors  without  delay,  where- 
upon the  Board  shall  forthwith  cause  a  special  elec- 
tion to  be  held  not  less  than  thirty-five  nor  more 
than  forty  days  after  the  date  of  the  order  calling 
such  an  election,  to  determine  whether  the  voters 
shall  recall  such  officer.  If  a  vacancy  occur  in  said 
office  after  a  recall  petition  is  filed,  and  the  office 
is  elective,  the  election  shall  nevertheless  proceed 
as  in  this  section  provided.  One  petition  is  sufficient 
to  propose  the  recall  of  one  or  more  officials  and  the 
election  of  successors  to  such  thereof  as  are  elective. 
Nominations  for  any  elective  office  under  such 
recall  election  shall  be  made  by  petition  in  the 
manner  prescribed  by  section  ii  88  of  the  Political 
Code.  Upon  the  sample  ballot  there  shall  be 
printed,  in  not  more  than  two  hundred  words,  the 
grounds  set  forth  in  the  recall  petition  for  demand- 
ing the  recall  of  the  officer,  and  upon  the  same 
ballot  in  not  more  than  two  hundred  words,  the 
officer  may  justify  himself.  There  shall  be  printed 
on  the  recall  ballot,  as  to  every  officer  whose  recall 
is  to  be  voted  on,  the  following  question:  ** Shall 
(name  of  person  against  whom  the  recall  petition 
is  filed)  be  recalled  from  the  office  of  (title  of 
office)?"  following  which  question  shall  be  the 
words  ''Yes"  and  "No"  on  separate  lines,  with  a 
blank  space  at  the  right  of  each,  in  which  the  voter 
shall,  by  stamping  a  cross  (x)  indicate  his  vote  for 
or  against  such  recall.  On  such  ballots,  under 
each  such  question  there  shall  also  be  printed, 
if  the  officer  sought  to  be  recalled  be  an  elective 
officer,  the  names  of  those  persons  who  shall  have 
been  nominated  as  candidates  to  succeed  him,  in 
case  he  shall  be  recalled  at  such  election;  but  no 
vote  shall  be  counted  for  any  candidate  for  said 
office  unless  the  voter  also  voted  on  the  question 
of  the  recall  of  the  person  sought  to  be  recalled 


APPENDIX  B  243 

therefrom.  The  name  of  the  person  sought  to 
be  recalled  shall  not  appear  on  the  ballot  as  a 
candidate  for  the  office.  If  a  majority  of  those 
voting  on  said  question  of  the  recall  of  any  incum- 
bent shall  vote  *'No"  said  incumbent  shall  con- 
tinue in  said  office.  If  a  majority  shall  vote 
**Yes, "  said  incumbent  shall  thereupon  be  deemed 
removed  from  such  office,  upon  the  qualification 
of  his  successor.  The  canvassers  shall  canvass 
the  votes  for  candidates  for  said  office  and  declare 
the  result  in  like  manner  as  in  a  regular  election. 
If  the  vote  at  any  such  recall  election  shall  recall 
the  officer,  then  the  candidate  who  has  received 
the  highest  number  of  votes  for  the  office  shall  be 
thereby  declared  elected  for  the  remainder  of  the 
term.  In  case  the  person  who  received  the  highest 
number  of  votes  shall  fail  to  qualify  within  ten 
days  after  receiving  the  certificate  of  election,  the 
office  shall  be  deemed  vacant  and  shall  be  filled  ac- 
cording to  law.  If  the  incumbent  of  an  appoint- 
ive office  be  recalled  at  such  election,  his  successor 
shall  be  appointed  immediately  after  the  can- 
vassing of  the  vote. 

Before  any  petition  can  be  filed  under  this  sec- 
tion for  the  recall  of  any  person  in  the  classified 
service  of  the  county,  there  shall  be  presented  to, 
and  be  passed  upon  by,  the  Civil  Service  Com- 
mission, a  complaint  in  writing  giving  the  grounds 
for  and  asking  the  removal  of  such  person.  Such 
complaint  must  be  considered  and  be  finally  acted 
upon  by  the  Commission  within  twenty  days 
after  such  filing. 

Until  such  time  as  the  Board  of  Supervisors 
shall  appoint  a  Registrar  of  Voters  under  the 
provisions  of  this  Charter,  the  powers  and  duties 
by  this  section  conferred  upon  the  Registrar  of 
Voters  shall  be  exercised  and  performed  by  the 


244  APPENDIX  B 

County  Clerk.  In  case,  at  any  time  prior  to 
the  appointment  of  such  Registrar  of  Voters,  the 
County  Clerk  shall  be  sought  to  be  recalled,  such 
powers  and  duties,  in  and  about  the  matter  of 
such  proposed  recall,  shall  be  exercised  and  per- 
formed by  some  other  officer  or  person  to  be 
designated  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors. 

ARTICLE  XII. 

Miscellaneous 

Sec.  51 :  Each  county  or  township  officer, 
Board  or  Commission  shall  appoint,  from  the 
eligible  civil  service  list,  for  either  permanent  or 
temporary  service,  all  assistants,  librarians,  depu- 
ties, clerks,  attaches  and  other  persons  in  the 
office  or  department  of  such  ofHcer,  Board  or 
Commission,  as  the  number  thereof  is  fixed  and 
from  time  to  time  changed  by  the  Board  of  Super- 
visors; provided,  that  appointments  to  the  un- 
classified service  in  their  respective  offices  and 
departments  shall  be  made  by  such  officers,  Boards 
and  Commissions,  without  reference  *  to  such 
eligible  list. 

Sec.  52:  The  compensation  of  any  elective 
county  or  township  officer  shall  not  be  increased 
nor  diminished  during  the  term  for  which  he  was 
elected,  nor  within  ninety  days  preceding  his 
election. 

No  compensation  for  any  position,  nor  of  any 
person  under  civil  service,  shall  be  increased  or 
diminished  without  the  consent  of  the  Civil  Service 
Commission  specifically  given  thereto  in  writing. 

Sec.  53:  Whenever  any  person  in  the  service 
of  the  county  is  compelled  to  travel  in  the  perform- 
ance of  his  duty,  he  shall,  in  addition  to  his  regular 


APPENDIX  B  245 

compensation,  be  reimbursed  for  his  actual  neces- 
sary expenditures  for  transportation,  the  hire  of 
conveyances,  and  for  lodging  and  meals.  An  item- 
ized account  of  such  expenditures  shall  be  filed 
with  the  Clerk  of  the  Board  of  Supervisors  and 
be  approved  by  the  Auditor  before  being  paid. 
The  Board  of  Supervisors  shall  fix  a  maximum 
price  to  be  paid  for  such  lodging  and  meals,  which 
shall  be  uniform  and  be  made  applicable  to  all 
persons  alike,  including  members  of  the  Board 
of  Supervisors. 

Sec.  54:  No  attorney,  agent,  stocldiolder  or 
employe  of  any  firm,  association  or  corporation 
doing  business  under  or  by  virtue  of  any  franchise 
granted  by,  or  contract  made  with  the  county,  shall, 
nor  shall  any  person  doing  such  business,  nor  shall 
any  person  financially  interested  in  any  such 
franchise  or  contract,  be  eligible  to  or  hold  any 
appointive  county  office. 

Sec.  55:  The  District  Attorney,  Public  De- 
fender, County  Counsel,  and  their  deputies,  shall 
not  engage  in  any  private  law  practice,  and  they 
shall  devote  all  their  time  and  attention  during  busi- 
ness hours  to  the  duties  of  their  respective  offices. 

Sec.  56:  Nothing  in  this  Charter  is  intended 
to  affect,  or  shall  be  construed  as  affecting,  the 
tenure  of  office  of  any  of  the  elective  officers  of 
the  county  or  of  any  district,  township  or  division 
thereof,  in  office  at  the  time  this  Charter  goes 
into  effect,  and  such  officers  shall  continue  to  hold 
their  respective  offices  until  the  expiration  of  the 
term  for  which  they  shall  have  been  elected  unless 
sooner  removed  in  the  manner  provided  by  law; 
nor  shall  anything  in  this  Charter  be  construed 
as  changing  or  affecting  the  compensation  of  any 
such  officer  during  the  term  for  which  he  shall  have 
been   elected.     But   the   successors   of  each   and 


246  APPENDIX  B 

all  of  such  officers  shall  be  elected  or  appointed 
as  in  this  Charter  provided,  and  not  otherwise. 

Sec.  57 :  This  Charter  shall  take  effect  at  noon 
on  the  first  Monday  in  June,  1913. 

We,  the  undersigned  members  of  the  Board  of 
Fifteen  Freeholders  of  the  County  of  Los  Angeles, 
in  the  State  of  California,  elected  at  a  special 
election  held  in  the  said  County  on  the  14th  day 
of  May,  191 2,  to  prepare  and  provide  a  Charter 
for  the  said  County,  under  and  in  accordance  with 
Section  7  1-2  of  Article  XI  of  the  Constitution  of 
this  state,  have  prepared,  and  we  do  hereby 
propose,  the  foregoing  as  and  for  a  Charter  for 
s-^id  County. 

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  we  hereunto  sign 
our  names  in  duplicate  this  twenty-fourth  day  of 
September,  1912. 

Lewis  R.  Works,  Chairman, 
Frederick  Baker, 
Willis  H.  Booth, 
T.  H.  Dudley, 
William  A.  Engle, 
David  Evans, 
H.  C.  Hubbard, 
J.  M.  Hunter, 
George  F.  Kernaghan, 
Frank  R.  Seaver, 
J.  H.  Strine, 
Charles  Wellborn. 


APPENDIX  C 

PROPOSED  COUNTY  HOME  RULE  IN  NEW  YORK 

[Below  is  the  text  of  a  constitutional  amend- 
ment introduced  in  the  Legislature  of  New  York 
in  191 6  by  the  County  Government  Association 
of  New  York  State.  The  general  object  of  this 
amendment  is  to  limit  the  amount  of  special 
legislation  affecting  counties  by  empowering 
boards  of  supervisors  to  deal  with  many  subjects 
of  administrative  organization  and  detail  over 
which  at  present  they  have  no  general  jurisdic- 
tion. The  amendment  anticipates  legislation 
under  which  counties  by  referendum  would  be 
able  to  adopt  one  of  several  simplified  forms 
of  government  in  substitution  for  the  existing 
form.] 

CONCURRENT    RESOLUTION    OF    THE    SENATE    AND 

ASSEMBLY 

Proposing  the  repeal  of  sections  twenty-six 
and  twenty-seven  of  article  three,  the  insertion 
of  two  new  sections  at  the  beginning  of  article 
ten,  to  be  numbered  sections  one  and  two, 
respectively,  and  the  renumbering  and  amend- 
ment of  sections  one  to  nine,  respectively,  of 
article  ten  of  the  constitution. 

247 


248  APPENDIX  C 

Section  i.  Resolved  (if  the  Senate  concur), 
That  sections  twenty-six  and  twenty-seven  of 
article  three  be  hereby  repealed. 

§  2.  Resolved  (if  the  Senate  concur),  That 
article  ten  of  the  constitution  be  hereby  amended 
by  inserting  therein  two  new  sections  at  the 
beginning  thereof,  to  be  numbered  sections  one  and 
two,  respectively,  to  read  as  follows: 

§  I .  Laws  relating  to  the  government  of  counties 
and  to  the  methods  of  selection,  terms  of  office,  re- 
moval and  compensation  of  county  officers  shall  he 
general  laws,  both  in  terms  and  in  effect.  The  hoard 
of  supervisors  of  any  county,  the  memhers  of  which 
shall  he  elected  in  the  year  one  thousand  nine  hundred 
and  seventeen  or  thereafter,  may  repeal  such  sections 
of  any  law  then  in  force  as  shall  relate  to  the  foregoing 
subjects  and  affect  exclusively  such  county.  The 
legislature  may  pass  a  law  authorizing  any  county, 
except  a  county  wholly  in  a  city,  upon  petition  of  a 
percentage  of  the  electors  thereof  to  he  determined  by 
the  legislature,  to  adopt  one  of  such  optional  forms  of 
county  government  as  may  he  set  forth  in  such  law. 
Such  law  may  authorize  the  selection  of  any  county 
officer  or  officers  by  the  electors,  by  the  hoard  of  super- 
visors or  by  other  county  officers,  and  provide  for  the 
removal  of  officers  so  selected;  it  may  confer  upon  the 
hoard  of  supervisors  such  powers  of  local  legislation, 
government  and  administration  as  the  legislature 
may  deem  expedient. 

§  2.  There  shall  he  in  each  county,  except  a 
county  wholly  included  in  a  city,  a  hoard  of  super- 
visors, to  be  composed  of  such  members  and  chosen  by 
the  electors  of  the  county  or  of  its  several  subdivisions 
in  such  manner  and  for  such  period  as  is  or  may 
be  provided  by  law.     In  a  city  which  includes  an 

Explanation: — Matter  in  italics  is  ne-w,  matter  in  brackets 
[    ]  is  old  law  to  be  omitted. 


APPENDIX  C  249 

entire  county  or  two  or  more  counties,  the  powers 
and  duties  of  a  hoard  of  supervisors  may  be  devolved 
upon  the  municipal  assembly,  common  council, 
hoard  of  aldermen  or  other  legislative  body  of  the 
city. 

§  3.  Resolved  (if  the  Senate  concur),  That 
sections  one  and  two  of  article  ten  of  the  constitu- 
tion be  renumbered  respectively  sections  three  and 
four  and  be  hereby  amended  to  read  as  follows: 

§  [i]  J.  Sheriffs,  clerks  of  counties,  district 
attorneys  and  registers,  in  counties  having  regis- 
ters, shall  be  chosen  by  the  electors  of  the  respective 
counties  [once  in  every  three  years  and  as  often  as 
vacancies  shall  happen,  except  in  the  counties  of 
New  York  and  Kings,  and  in  counties  whose 
boundaries  are  the  same  as  those  of  a  city,  in  every 
two  or  four  years],  as  the  legislature  shall  direct, 
unless  and  until  the  electors  in  the  manner  provided 
in  section  one  hereof  shall  adopt  other  methods  of 
selection.  Sheriffs  shall  hold  no  other  office  and 
[be  ineligible  for  the  next  term  after  the  termination 
of  their  offices.  They]  may  be  required  by  law  to 
renew  their  security  from  time  to  time,  jand  in 
default  of  giving  such  new  security,  their  offices 
shall  be  deemed  vacant.  But  the  county  shall 
never  be  made  responsible  for  the  acts  of  the 
sheriff.  The  governor  may  remove  any  officer, 
in  this  section  mentioned,  within  the  term  for 
which  he  shall  have  been  elected  or  appointed; 
giving  to  such  officer  a  copy  of  the  charges  against 
him  and  an  opportunity  of  being  heard  in  his 
defense. 

§  [2]  4.  All  county  officers  whose  election  or 
appointment  is  not  provided  for  by  this  con- 
stitution, shall  be  elected  by  the  electors  of  the 
respective  counties  or  appointed  by  the  boards 
of  supervisors,  or  other  county  authorities  as  the 


250  APPENDIX  C 

legislature  shall  direct.  All  city,  town  and  village 
officers,  whose  election  or  appointment  is  not  pro- 
vided for  by  this  constitution  shall  be  elected 
by  the  electors  of  such  cities,  towns  and  villages,  or 
of  some  division  thereof,  or  appointed  by  such 
authorities  thereof,  as  the  legislature  shall  designate 
for  that  purpose.  All  other  officers,  whose  election 
or  appointment  is  not  provided  for  by  this  con- 
stitution, and  all  officers  whose  offices  may  here- 
after be  created  by  law,  shall  be  elected  by  the 
people,  or  appointed  as  the  legislature  may  direct. 
Nothing  in  this  section  shall  prevent  the  transfer  in 
whole  or  in  part,  of  the  functions  of  any  town  or 
village  officer  to  any  county  officer,  or  the  transfer  in 
whole  or  in  part  of  the  function  of  any  county  officer 
to  any  town  or  village  officer. 

§  4.  Resolved  (if  the  Senate  concur),  That 
sections  three,  four,  five,  six,  seven,  eight  and  nine 
of  article  ten  of  the  constitution  be  hereby  re- 
numbered five,  six,  seven,  eight,  nine,  ten  and 
eleven,  respectively.  " 


APPENDIX  D 

PROPOSED    COUNTY   MANAGER    LAW    IN    NEW    YORK 

[This  is  the  text  of  a  bill  introduced  in  the 
New  York  legislature  at  its  session  in  1 916  at  the 
instance  of  the  County  Government  Association 
of  New  York  State.  For  summary  and  com- 
ment on  its  provisions  see  pp.  178,  179.] 

AN  ACT 

PROVIDING  AN  OPTIONAL  FORM  OF  COUNTY  GOVERN- 
MENT  FOR   COUNTIES   NOT  WHOLLY   INCLUDED 

IN  A  CITY 

The  People  of  the  State  of  New  York,  represented 
in  Senate  and  Assembly,  do  enact  as  follows: 

Section  i.  Chapter  sixteen  of  the  laws  of 
nineteen  hundred  and  nine,  entitled  ''An  act  in 
relation  to  counties,  constituting  chapter  eleven 
of  the  consolidated  laws,"  is  hereby  amended  by 
adding  after  article  fourteen-a  a  new  article,  to 
be  article  fourteen-b,  to  read  as  follows: 

Article  14-B 

§  240.  Application  of  article.  This  article  shall 
apply  to  all  counties  which  shall  adopt  the  same  in 

251 


252  APPENDIX  D 

the  manner  hereinafter  prescribed,  providing  that  the 
question  of  its  adoption  may  not  be  submitted  in 
counties  included  wholly  in  a  city. 

§  241.  Submission  of  article.  If  prior  to  the 
first  day  of  October  i?i  any  year  one  percentum 
of  the  registered,  electors  of  any  county  shcdl  file  with 
the  appropriate  officer  a  petition  for  the  submission 
of  the  question  of  the  adoption  of  this  article,  the  said 
officer  shall  prepare  the  following  question  to  be 
submitted  at  the  general  election  held  in  that  year^ 
in  the  same  manner  as  other  questions  are  submitted: 
'^  Shall  article  four teen-b  of  the  county  law,  providing 
for  government  by  a  board  of  county  supervisors 
and  a  cou7ity  manager,  apply  to  the  county  of  {name 
of  county)?'' 

§  242.  Election  of  county  officers.  If  a  majority 
of  all  votes  cast  on  such  proposition  be  affirmative^ 
there  shall  be  elected  in  the  county  at  the  next  succeed- 
ing general  election,  in  the  same  manner  as  are  other 
county  officers,  five  officers  to  be  known  as  county 
supervisors.  The  said  county  supervisors  shall  hold 
office  for  a  term  of  three  years,  commenciitg  at  noon 
on  the  first  day  of  January  next  succeeding  their 
election;  provided,  however,  that  of  those  elected  at 
the  first  electio?t  under  this  article  two  shall  hold  office 
for  one  year,  two  for  two  years,  and  one  for  three 
years,  the  designation  whereof  shall  be  made  on  the 
electioji  ballot. 

§  243.  County  supervisors;  qualifications;  va- 
cancies and  removals.  County  supervisors  shall  be 
electors  of  the  county.  When  a  vacancy  shall  occur y 
otherwise  than  by  expiration  of  term,  in  the  office  of 
county  supervisor,  the  same  shall  be  fJled  for  the 
remainder  of  the  unexpired  term  at  the  next  general 
election  happening  not  less  than  three  months  after 
such  vacancy  occurs;  and  until  such  vacancy  shall  be 
filled  the  governor  shall  fill  such  vacancy  by  appoint- 


APPENDIX  D  253 

ment.     A    county   officer  may   he   removed   by   the 
governor  in  the  same  manner  as  a  sheriff. 

§  244.  The  board  of  supervisors;  organization, 
powers,  compensation  of  members.  The  county 
supervisors  in  each  county  adopting  this  article  shall 
constitute  the  board  of  supervisors  of  such  county  and 
the  powers  and  duties  conferred  and  imposed  upon 
the  board  of  supervisors  and  the  officers  and  com- 
mittees thereof  in  any  general  or  special  law  are 
hereby  devolved  upon  the  board  so  constituted,  together 
with  such  other  powers,  duties  and  responsibilties  as 
may  be  cofiferred  upon  them  by  law,  to  be  exercised 
subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  article.  Whefi  the 
county  supervisors  elected  within  such  county  shall 
have  qualified  the  supervisors  of  the  several  towns  and 
wards  of  cities  within  the  county  shall  cease  to  convene 
as  a  board  of  supervisors  or  to  exercise  any  of  the 
powers  and  duties  required  to  be  exercised  by  the 
board  of  supervisors  of  the  cotmty.  The  board  shall 
elect  one  of  its  number  president,  whose  powers 
and  duties  shall  be  determined  by  said  board,  and 
shall  adopt  rules  for  the  conduct  of  its  business. 
Each  member  of  the  board  shall  receive  an  annual 
compensatio7t  not  to  exceed  five  htmdred  dollars,  the 
amount  of  which  shall  be  determijied  by  the  said  board 
for  attendance  upon  each  of  its  meetings,  provided,  that 
the  total  amount  shall  not  exceed  five  hundred  dollars. 
Such  compensation  shall  be  a  county  charge  and  in 
addition  to  the  actual  necessary  expenses  incurred 
for  transportation  in  going  to  and  fro^n  the  meetings 
of  the  board, 

§  245.  Election  officers.  No  person  who  shall 
hold  or  be  elected  to  any  elective  county  office  at  or 
before  the  election  at  which  this  article  is  adopted 
shall  be  removed  therefrom  under  authority  of  this 
article  before  the  expiration  of  the  term  for  which  he 
was  elected  or  appointed  to  fill  a  vacancy. 


254  APPENDIX  D 

§  246.  The  county  manager;  appointment;  quali- 
fications; tenure;  compensation.  The  board  of 
supervisors  shall  appoint  an  officer  who  shall  he  a 
citizen  of  the  United  States  but  who,  at  the  time  of 
his  appointment,  need  not  be  a  resident  of  the  county, 
to  be  known  as  the  county  manager.  The  said  county 
manager  shall  execute  to  the  county  good  and  sufficient 
sureties,  to  be  approved  by  the  county  judge,  in  a  sum 
to  be  fixed  by  the  board  of  supervisors,  conditioned 
upoft  the  faithful  performance  of  his  duties.  He 
shall  not  be  personally  interested  in  any  contract  to 
which  the  county  is  a  party;  he  shall  hold  office  at  the 
pleasure  of  the  board  of  supervisors,  and  upon 
removal,  the  said  board  shall  furnish  him  with  a 
written  statement  of  the  reasons  for  such  action, 
signed  by  at  least  two  members  thereof.  The  board 
of  supervisors  shall  prescribe  the  salary  of  such 
county  manager  and  the  compensation  of  the  assist- 
ants and  subordinates  to  be  appointed  by  him,  which 
shall  be  a  county  charge  and  may  be  increased  or 
diminished  at  any  time.  A  member  of  the  board  of 
supervisors,  during  the  term  for  which  he  is  elected 
or  appointed,  shall  not  be  eligible  for  the  office  of 
county  manager. 

§  247.  Duties  and  powers  of  the  county  maftager. 
The  county  manager  shall  be  the  administrative 
agent  of  the  board  of  supervisors.  It  shall  be  Ms 
duty 

(a)  To  attend  all  meetings  of  the  board  of  super- 
visors; 

(b)  To  see  that  the  resolutions  and  other  orders 
of  the  board  of  supervisors  and  the  laws  of  the  state 
required  to  be  enforced  by  such  board,  are  faithfully 
carried  out  by  the  officers  and  employees  of  the 
county,  includifig  all  officers  chosen  by  the  electors; 

(c)  To  recommend  to  the  board  of  supervisors  such 
measures  as  he  may  deem  necessary  or  expedient 


APPENDIX  D  255 

for  the  proper  admi7iistration  of  the  affairs  of  the 
county  and  its  several  offices; 

(d)  To  appoint  all  county  officers  whose  election 
by  the  electors  is  not  reqtiired  by  the  constitution, 
except  county  supervisors  afid  the  county  auditor  or 
comptroller,  and  for  such  terms  of  office  as  are  pro- 
vided by  law. 

Subject  to  resolutions  of  the  board  of  supervisors 
he  shall 

ie)  Purchase  all  supplies  and  materials  reqidred 
by  every  county  officer,  including  the  superintendents 
of  the  poor; 

(/)  Execute  contracts  on  behalf  of  the  board  of 
supervisors  when  the  consideration  therein  shall  not 
exceed  five  hundred  dollars; 

(g)  Obtain  from  the  several  county  officers  reports 
of  their  various  activities^  in  such  form  and  at  such 
times  as  the  board  of  supervisors  may  require; 

{h)  Obtain  from  the  several  county  officers 
itemized  estimates  of  the  probable  expense  of  conduct- 
ing their  offices  for  the  ensuing  year,  and  transmit 
the  same  to  the  board  of  supervisors  with  his  approval 
or  disapproval  of  each  and  all  items  therein,  in  the 
form  of  a  tentative  budget; 

(i)  Perform  such  other  duties  as  the  board  of 
supervisors  may  require. 

In  the  exercise  of  the  foregoing  duties,  the  county 
manager  shall  have  the  same  powers  to  exawAne 
witnesses,  to  take  testimony  under  oath  and  to  in- 
vestigate the  affairs  of  every  county  officer  which 
is  conferred  by  this  chapter  upon  the  boards  of  super- 
visors and  committees  thereof. 

§  248.  The  administrative  code.  V/ithin  nijiety 
days  after  the  first  day  of  operation  under  this  article ^ 
the  board  of  supervisors  shall  adopt,  publish  in  pam- 
phlet form  a?td  cause  to  be  delivered  to  every  officer 
of  the  county,  arid  to  such  other  persons  as  shall  apply 


256  APPENDIX  D 

for  the  same,  a  code  of  administrative  rules.  Such 
code,  subject  to  such  regidatioiis  concerning  the 
conduct  of  various  county  officers  as  may  be  made 
from  time  to  time  by  the  comptroller,  shall  contain 
the  rules  of  the  said  hoard  07i  the  following  subjects: 

{a)  The  methods  by  which  the  county  manager 
shall  exercise  the  duties  imposed  upon  him  in  sub- 
divisions (e)  to  (i) ,  inclusive,  of  section  two  hundred 
and  forty-seven  of  this  article. 

(b)  The  method  by  which,  and  the  form  in  which, 
the  several  county  officers  and  employees  shall  order 
supplies  a7td  materials, 

(c)  The  form  in  which,  and  the  times  at  which, 
the  several  county  officers  shall  submit  the  estimates 
of  the  probable  financial  needs  of  their  offices  for  the 
ensuing  year, 

(d)  The  manner  in  which  the  county  treasurer 
shall  disburse  the  funds  of  the  county, 

(e)  Such  other  regulations  as  shall  be  necessary 
to  secure  the  efficient-  conduct  of  the  affairs  of  the 
county  and  its  several  offices. 

§  249.  Application  of  certain  laws.  All  general 
and  special  laws  applicable  to  the  county  shall  remain 
in  fidl  force  and  effect  except  in  so  far  as  they  are  in 
conflict  with  this  article. 

§  2.     This  act  shall  take  effect  immediately. 


APPENDIX  E 

THE  CHIEF  MEDICAL  EXAMINER  IN  NEW  YORK  CITY 

[An  amendment  of  the  New  York  City  Charter 
(Chap.  284  Laws  of  191 5)  aboHshed  the  elective 
coroners  in  the  five  boroughs  and  created  the 
office  of  Chief  Medical  Examiner.  This  amend- 
ment was  prepared  by  representatives  of  the 
principal  medical,  legal  and  civic  societies  in 
New  York  City  working  in  conjunction  with  the 
Commissioner  of  Accounts  and  representatives 
of  the  District  Attorney's  office.  It  is  believed 
to  embody  important  standards  of  organization 
and  procedure  in  the  prosecution  of  public 
medico-legal  investigations.  The  provisions  of 
the  amendment  will  go  into  effect  January  i, 
1918.] 

AN  ACT 


To  amend  the  Greater  New  York  charter,  and 
repeal  certain  sections  thereof  and  of  chapter 
four  hundred  and  ten  of  the  laws  of  eighteen 
hundred  and  eighty-two,  in  relation  to  the 
abolition  of  the  office  of  coroner  and  the  es- 
tablishment of  the  office  of  chief  medical 
examiner. 

17  257 


258  APPENDIX  E 

The  People  of  the  State  of  New  York,  represented 
in  Senate  and  Assembly,  do  enact  as  follows: 

Section  i.  The  office  of  coroner  in  the  city 
of  New  York  shall  be  abolished  on  Januaiy  first, 
nineteen  hundred  and  eighteen,  and  after  this 
section  takes  effect,  a  vacancy  occurring  in  such 
an  office  in  any  borough  shall  not  be  filled  unless 
by  reason  of  the  occurrence  thereof,  there  shall  be 
no  coroner  in  office  in  such  borough,  in  which  case 
the  vacancy  in  such  borough  last  occurring  shall  be 
filled  for  a  term  to  expire  on  January  first,  nineteen 
hundred  and  eighteen.  If,  by  reason  of  the 
provisions  of  this  section,  the  number  of  coroners 
in  a  borough  be  reduced,  the  remaining  coroner 
or  coroners  in  such  borough  shall  have  the  powers 
and  perform  the  duties  conferred  or  imposed  by 
law  on  the  board  of  coroners  in  such  borough. 

§  2.  Title  four  of  chapter  twenty-three,  sec- 
tions fifteen  hundred  and  seventy  and  fifteen 
hundred  and  seventy-one  of  the  Greater  New 
York  charter,  as  re-enacted  by  chapter  four 
hundred  and  sixty-six  of  the  laws  of  nineteen 
hundred  and  one,  is  hereby  repealed,  and  in  its 
place  is  inserted  a  new  title  to  be  numbered  four 
and  to  read  as  follows: 

TITLE  IV 

Chief  Medical  Examiner 

Section  1570.       Organization  of  office;  officers  and 

employees. 
1 57 1.       Violent    and    suspicious    deaths; 

procedure. 
1571-a.    Autopsies ;  findings. 


'APPENDIX  E  259 

1 57 1  -b.    Report  of  deaths ;  removal  of  body. 

1571-C.    Records. 

1571-d.   Oaths  and  affidavits. 

ORGANIZATION  OF  OFFICE;  OFFICERS  AND  EMPLOYEES 

§  1570.  There  is  hereby  estabHshed  the  office 
of  chief  medical  examiner  of  the  city  of  New  York. 
The  head  of  the  office  shall  be  called  the  "chief 
medical  examiner."  He  shall  be  appointed  by 
the  mayor  from  the  classified  service  and  be  a 
doctor  of  medicine,  and  a  skilled  pathologist  and 
microscopist. 

The  mayor  may  remove  such  officer  upon 
stating  in  writing  his  reasons  therefor,  to  be  filed  in 
the  office  of  the  municipal  civil  service  commission 
and  served  upon  such  officer,  and  allowing  him 
an  opportunity  of  making  a  public  explanation. 
The  chief  medical  examiner  may  appoint  and 
remove  such  deputies,  assistant  medical  examiners, 
scientific  experts,  officers  and  employees  as  may 
be  provided  for  pursuant  to  law.  Such  deputy 
medical  examiners,  and  assistant  medical  exami- 
ners, as  may  be  appointed,  shall  possess  qualifica- 
tions similar  to  those  required  in  the  appointment 
of  the  chief  medical  examiner.  The  office  shall 
be  kept  open  every  day  in  the  year,  including 
Sundays  and  legal  holidays,  with  a  clerk  in  constant 
attendance  at  all  times  during  the  day  and  night. 

VIOLENT  AND  SUSPICIOUS  DEATHS ;  PROCEDURE 

§  1 57 1.  When,  in  the  city  of  New  York,  any 
person  shall  die  from  criminal  violence,  or  by  a 
casualty,  or  by  suicide,  or  suddenly  when  in 
apparent  health,  or  when  unattended  by  a  phy- 
sician, or  in  prison,  or  in  any  suspicious  or  unusual 


26o  APPENDIX  E 

manner,  the  officer  in  charge  of  the  station  house  in 
the  poHce  precinct  in  which  such  person  died  shall 
immediately  notify  the  office  of  the  chief  medical 
examiner  of  the  known  facts  concerning  the  time, 
place,  manner  and  circumstances  of  such  death. 
Immediately  upon  receipt  of  such  notification 
the  chief  medical  examiner,  or  a  deputy  or  assistant 
medical  examiner,  shall  go  to  the  dead  body,  and 
take  charge  of  the  same.  Such  examiner  shall  fully 
investigate  the  essential  facts  concerning  the 
circumstances  of  the  death,  taking  the  names  and 
addresses  of  as  many  witnesses  thereto  as  it  may 
be  practical  to  obtain,  and,  before  leaving  the 
premises,  shall  reduce  all  such  facts  to  writing 
and  file  the  same  in  his  office.  The  police  officer 
so  detailed  shall,  in  the  absence  of  the  next  of  kin 
of  deceased  person,  take  possession  of  all  property 
of  value  found  on  such  person,  make  an  exact 
inventory  thereof  on  his  report,  and  deliver  such 
property  to  the  police  department,  which  shall 
surrender  the  same  to  the  person  entitled  to  its 
custody  or  possession.  Such  examiner  shall  take 
possession  of  any  portable  objects  which,  in  his 
opinion,  may  be  useful  in  establishing  the  cause 
of  death,  and  deliver  them  to  the  police  depart- 
ment. 

Nothing  in  this  section  contained  shall  affect 
the  powers  and  duties  of  a  public  administrator 
as  now  provided  by  law. 

autopsies;  findings 

§  1 57 1 -a.  If  the  cause  of  such  death  shall  be 
established  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt,  the 
medical  examiner  in  charge  shall  so  report  to  his 
office.  If,  however,  in  the  opinion  of  such  medical 
examiner,  an  autopsy  is  necessary,  the  same  shall 


APPENDIX  E  261 

be  performed  by  a  medical  examiner.  A  detailed 
description  of  the  findings  written  during  the 
progress  of  such  autopsy  and  the  conclusions 
drawn  therefrom  shall  thereupon  be  filed  in  his 
office. 

REPORT  OF  deaths;  REMOVAL  OF  BODY 

§  1571-b.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  any  citizen 
who  may  become  aware  of  the  death  of  any  such 
person  to  report  such  death  forthwith  to  the  office 
of  the  chief  medical  examiner,  and  to  a  police 
officer  who  shall  forthwith  notify  the  officer  in 
charge  of  the  station-house  in  the  police  precinct 
in  which  such  person  died.  Any  person  who  shall 
willfully  neglect  or  refuse  to  report  such  death  or 
who  without  written  order  from  a  medical  examiner 
shall  willfully  touch,  remove  or  disturb  the  body 
of  any  such  person,  or  willfully  touch,  remove,  or 
disturb  the  clothing,  or  any  article  upon  or  near 
such  body,  shall  be  guilty  of  a  misdemeanor. 

RECORDS 

§  1571-C.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  office  of 
medical  examiner  to  keep  full  and  complete  records. 
Such  records  shall  be  kept  in  the  office,  properly 
indexed,  stating  the  name,  if  known,  of  every 
such  person,  the  place  where  the  body  was  found 
and  the  date  of  death.  To  the  record  of  each  case 
shall  be  attached  the  original  report  of  the  medical 
examiner  and  the  detailed  findings  of  the  autopsy, 
if  any.  The  office  shall  promptly  deliver  to  the 
appropriate  district  attorney  copies  of  all  records 
relating  to  every  death  as  to  which  there  is,  in  the 
judgment  of  the  medical  examiner  in  charge,  any 
indication  of  criminality.     All  other  records  shall 


262  APPENDIX  E 

be  open  to  public  inspection  as  provided  in  section 
fifteen  hundred  and  forty-five.  The  appropriate 
district  attorney  and  the  police  commissioner  of 
the  city  may  require  from  such  officer  such  further 
records,  and  such  daily  information,  as  they  may 
deem  necessary. 

OATHS  AND  AFFIDAVITS 

§  1571-d.  The  chief  medical  examiner,  and 
all  deputy  or  assistant  medical  examiners,  may 
administer  oaths,  and  take  affidavits,  proofs  and 
examinations  as  to  any  matter  within  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  the  office. 

§  3.  Section  eleven  hundred  and  seventy-nine 
of  such  charter  is  hereby  amended  to  read  as 
follows : 


BUREAUS 

§  II 79.  There  shall  be  two  bureaus  in  the 
department  of  health.  The  chief  officer  of  one 
bureau  shall  be  called  the  ''sanitary  superintend- 
ent," who,  at  the  time  of  his  appointment,  shall 
have  been,  for  at  least  ten  years,  a  practicing 
physician,  and  for  three  years  a  resident  of  the 
city  of  New  York,  and  he  shall  be  the  chief 
executive  officer  of  said  department.  The  chief 
officer  of  the  second  bureau  shall  be  called  the 
"registrar  of  records,"  and  in  said  bureau  shall 
be  recorded,  without  fees,  every  birth,  marriage, 
and  death,  which  shall  occur  within  the  city  of 
New  York. 

§  4.  Section  twelve  hundred  and  three  of  such 
charter  is  hereby  amended  to  read  as  follows : 


APPENDIX  E  263 

MEDICAL  examiners'  RETURNS 

§  1203.  The  department  of  health  may,  from 
time  to  time  make  rules  and  regulations  fixing  the 
time  of  rendering,  and  defining  the  form  of  returns 
and  reports  to  be  made  to  said  department  by 
the  office  of  chief  medical  examiner  of  the  city  of 
New  York,  in  all  cases  of  death  which  shall  be 
investigated  by  it;  and  the  office  of  the  chief 
medical  examiner  is  hereby  required  to  conform 
to  such  rules  and  regulations. 

§  5.  Section  twelve  hundred  and  thirty-eight 
of  such  charter  is  hereby  amended  to  read  as 
follows : 

DEATHS  TO  BE  REPORTED 

§  1238.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  next  of  kin 
of  any  person  deceased,  and  of  each  person  being 
with  such  deceased  person  at  his  or  her  death,  to 
file  report  in  writing,  with  the  department  of  health 
within  five  days  after  such  death,  stating  the  age, 
color,  nativity,  last  occupation  and  cause  of  death 
of  such  deceased  person,  and  the  borough  and 
street,  the  place  of  such  person's  death  and  last 
residence.  Physicians  who  have  attended  de- 
ceased persons  in  their  last  illness  shall,  in  the 
certificate  of  the  decease  of  such  persons,  specify, 
as  near  as  the  same  can  be  ascertained,  the  name 
and  surname,  age,  occupation,  term  of  residence 
in  said  city,  place  of  nativity,  condition  of  life; 
whether  single  or  married,  widow  or  widower; 
color,  last  place  of  residence  and  the  cause  of 
death  of  such  deceased  persons,  and  the  medi- 
cal examiners  of  the  city,  shall,  in  their  certi- 
ficates conform  to  the  requirements  of  this 
section. 


264  APPENDIX  E 

§  6.  Such  charter  is  hereby  amended  by  insert- 
ing therein  a  new  section,  to  be  numbered  section 
fifteen  hundred  and  eighty-five-a,  and  to  read  as 
follows : 

COUNTY  CLERKS  TO  EXERCISE  CERTAIN  STATUTORY 
POWERS  AND  DUTIES  OF  CORONERS 

§  1585-a.  In  the  city  of  New  York  the  powers 
imposed  and  the  duties  conferred  upon  coroners 
by  the  provisions  of  title  three  of  chapter  two  of 
the  code  of  civil  procedure  shall  be  exercised  and 
performed  by  the  county  clerk  of  the  appropriate 
county,  and  said  county  clerk  shall,  in  the  exer- 
cise and  performance  thereof,  be  subject  to  the 
same  liabilities  and  responsibilities  as  are  pre- 
scribed in  such  title  in  the  case  of  coroners. 

§  7.  Sections  seventeen  hundred  and  sixty- 
six  to  seventeen  hundred  and  seventy-nine,  both 
inclusive,  of  chapter  four  hundred  and  ten  of  the 
laws  of  eighteen  hundred  and  eighty-two,  entitled 
"An  act  to  consolidate  into  one  act  and  to  declare 
the  special  and  local  laws  affecting  public  interests 
in  the  city  of  New  York,"  and  all  acts  amending 
such  sections,  are  hereby  repealed. 

§  8.  The  officers  and  employees  now  exercising 
the  powers  and  duties  which  by  this  act  are  abol- 
ished, or  are  conferred  or  imposed  upon  the  office 
of  chief  medical  examiner,  including  coroner's 
physicians,  shall  be  transferred  to  the  office  of 
chief  medical  examiner.  Service  in  the  office, 
board  or  body  from  which  transferred  shall  count 
for  all  purposes  as  service  in  the  office  of  the  chief 
medical  examiner. 

§  9.  All  funds,  property,  records,  books,  papers 
and  documents  within  the  jurisdiction  or  control 
of  any  such  coroner,  or  such  board  of  coroners, 


APPENDIX  E  265 

shall,  on  demand,  be  transferred  and  delivered 
to  the  office  of  the  chief  medical  examiner.  The 
board  of  estimate  and  apportionment  shall  transfer 
to  the  office  of  the  chief  medical  examiner  all  unex- 
pended appropriations  made  by  the  city  to  enable 
any  coroner,  or  board  of  coroners,  to  exercise  any 
of  the  powers  and  duties  which  by  this  act  are 
abolished  or  are  conferred  or  imposed  upon  such 
office  of  chief  medical  examiner. 


APPENDIX  F 

a  county  almshouse  in  texas 

By  Dr.  Thomas  W.  Salmon 

[Portion  of  an  address  delivered  at  the  meeting 
of  the  Association  of  County  Judges  and  Com- 
missioners at  Waxahachie,  Texas,  on  February 
II,  1916.] 

This  particular  Poor  Farm  is  in  one  of  the  rich- 
est counties  of  the  state.  The  taxable  property  of 
that  county  is  assessed  at  more  than  $45,000,000. 
It  contains  no  large  cities  (the  largest  has  a  popula- 
tion of  15,000),  all  but  two  per  cent,  of  the  people 
are  native-born  and  the  proportion  of  negroes  is 
much  less  than  in  the  state  as  a  whole.  It  would 
be  difficult  indeed  to  find  in  this  wide  land  a  county 
more  prosperous,  more  pleasant  to  live  in  or  more 
truly  American  than  this  one. 

Four  miles  west  of  the  county-seat  is  the  Poor 
Farm.  There  is  a  substantial  brick  building  for 
the  poor  and  infirm  which  is  heated  by  steam  and 
lighted  by  acetylene  gas.  Scattered  around  the 
main  building  are  some  small  wooden  cabins, 
cheap  in  construction  and  not  in  very  good  repair, 
but,  on  the  whole,  comfortable  for  the  old  people, 
the  paralytics  and  the  epileptics  who  live  in  them. 
If  we  could  leave  this  Poor  Farm,  having  seen  so 

266 


APPENDIX  F  267 

much  and  no  more,  we  could  think  of  it  again  only 
with  feelings  of  pleasure  that  the  county's  un- 
fortunates were  provided  for  so  comfortably;  but 
standing  alone  is  an  old  brick  building  in  which 
the  insane  are  kept  and  this  must  be  visited  too. 
It  is  a  gloomy  place,  coming  out  of  the  bright 
October  sun,  but  when  your  eyes  become  accus- 
tomed to  the  shadows,  you  see  what  this  county  has 
provided  for  the  insane  who  are  neglected  by  the 
great  mother  state.  You  see  that  there  is  a  clear 
space  running  around  three  sides  of  the  one  large 
room  which  forms  the  entire  interior  of  the  build- 
ing. In  the  center  and  across  the  rear  end  of  this 
room  are  fourteen  iron  cages — four  extending  across 
the  rear  and  ten  back  to  back,  down  the  center. 
They  are  made  of  iron  bars,  the  tops,  backs  and 
adjoining  sides  being  sheet  metal.  Near  the  top  of 
each  solid  side,  are  seven  rows  of  holes  about  an 
inch  in  diameter.  Their  purpose  is  ventilation 
but  they  serve  also  to  destroy  what  poor  privacy 
these  cages  might  otherwise  possess.  Each  cage 
contains  a  prison  cot  or  two  swinging  from  the 
wall  while  a  few  have  cots  upon  the  floor. 

In  these  cages,  which  are  too  far  from  the 
windows  in  the  brick  walls  for  the  sunlight  to 
enter  except  during  the  short  period  each  day 
when  it  shines  directly  opposite  them,  abandoned 
to  filth  and  unbelievable  misery  lie  the  insane 
poor  of  this  pleasant,  fertile,  prosperous  American 
county.  Color,  age  and  sex  have  no  significance 
in  this  place.  All  of  those  distinctions  which 
govern  the  lives  of  human  beings  elsewhere  are 
merged  in  common  degradation  here. 

Men  and  women,  black  and  white,  old  and 
young,  share  its  horrors  just  alike.  They  are 
insane  and  that  fact  alone  wipes  out  every  other 
consideration  and  every  obligation  except  that  of 


268  APPENDIX  F 

keeping,  with  food  and  shelter,  the  spark  of  life 
aUght.  When,  at  dusk,  the  shadows  deepen,  the 
creatures  in  this  place  of  wretchedness  cower 
closer  in  the  corners  of  their  cages  for  there  are 
no  cheerful  lights  here  as  in  the  other  buildings 
and  when  the  darkness  blots  out  everything  there 
are  only  the  moans  of  distressed  human  beings 
to  tell  you  it  is  not  a  tomb.  Through  the  night, 
when  persons  with  bodily  illnesses  are  attended 
by  quietly  treading  nurses  in  the  two  fine  hospitals 
which  the  nearby  town  supports,  these  unfortunate 
men  and  women,  who  are  sick  in  mind  as  well  as  in 
body,  drag  through  terrors  which  no  human  com- 
munity would  wish  to  have  its  worst  criminals 
experience. 

Each  day  brings  to  the  poor  creatures  here 
light  and  food — as  it  does  to  the  cattle  in  the  sheds 
— but  it  does  not  bring  to  them  the  slightest  hope 
of  intelligent  care,  nor,  to  most  of  them,  even  the 
narrow  liberty  of  the  iron-fenced  yard.  One  at- 
tendant, a  cheerful  young  man,  is  employed  by 
the  county  to  look  after  the  forty-odd  inmates 
who  at  the  least  compose  the  Poor  Farm  population. 
He  used  to  be  a  trolley  car  conductor  but  now  he 
receives  forty  dollars  a  month  for  attending  to  the 
inmates,  male  and  female,  who  cannot  care  for 
themselves.  He  brings  back  the  feeble-minded 
when  they  wander  off,  he  finds  epileptics  when  they 
fall  in  their  attacks  and  he  sees  that  all  are  fed. 
He  is  called  the  *' yard-man";  his  duties  are  those 
of  a  herdsman  for  human  beings.  His  predecessor, 
a  man  of  about  sixty  years  of  age,  is  serving  a 
term  in  the  state  penitentiary  for  an  attack  upon 
a  little  girl  who  was  an  inmate  of  this  Poor  Farm. 
At  his  trial  it  was  brought  out  that  he  had  served 
a  previous  term  in  another  state  for  a  similar 
offense. 


APPENDIX  F  269 

The  present  "yard-man"  has  not  the  sHghtest 
knowledge  of  any  other  kind  of  treatment  for  the 
insane,  nor  has  he  had  the  shghtest  experience  in 
practical  nursing  or  in  caring  for  the  mentally  or 
physically  helpless.  He  has  been  employed  here 
about  a  year.  He  found  the  insane  in  these  cages 
and  he  knows  of  no  other  way  of  keeping  them. 
All  but  three  or  four  of  them  remain  in  their  cages 
all  day,  crouching  on  the  stone  floors  instead  of  on 
the  green  grass  outside.  A  feeble  white  woman 
in  bed,  wasted  and  pale,  who  apparently  has  but 
a  few  months  to  live,  was  pointed  out  in  one  of  the 
cages  and  the  *' yard-man"  was  asked  if  she  would 
run  away  if  she  were  permitted  to  have  her  bed 
outside.  He  admitted  that  it  was  not  likely  but 
said  that  she  was  weak  and  would  fall  out  of  bed. 
He  was  asked  if  it  would  be  w^orse  to  fall  out  of 
bed  on  the  grass  or  on  the  wooden  floor  of  the  main 
building  than  on  the  stone  floor  of  her  cage,  but 
these  matters  were  far  outside  his  experience  and 
he  had  no  reply  to  make. 

How  much  more  knowledge  and  experience 
would  have  been  required  of  this  young  man  if 
the  county  had  seen  fit  to  maintain  a  menagerie  1 
No  one  would  think  of  entrusting  the  animals  to 
one  so  wholly  inexperienced  in  their  care.  This 
young  man  might  be  employed  as  an  assistant, 
but  he  would  never  be  placed  in  charge  of  an  animal 
house  full  of  valuable  specimens. 

Do  not  make  the  mistake  of  thinking  that  the 
wretched  people  who  are  confined  in  these  cages 
were  selected  from  a  larger  number  of  insane  in- 
mates of  the  Poor  Farm  on  account  of  exceptional 
intractability  or  because  their  brains  have  been  so 
dulled  by  the  final  stages  of  dementia  that  they  are 
no  longer  conscious  of  their  surroundings.  These 
people  are  not  a  few  selected  for    such  reasons; 


270  APPENDIX  F 

they  constitute  all  but  one  of  the  avowedly  insane 
who  are  housed  in  this  Poor  Farm.  They  include 
persons  as  appreciative  as  you  or  I  would  be  of 
the  loathesomeness  of  their  surroundings  and  of 
the  personal  humiliation  of  being  confined  in  such  a 
place.  In  one  cage  is  a  man  who  has  delusions 
which  doubtless  make  it  unsafe  for  him  to  have  his 
liberty  in  the  community.  He  has  not  been  al- 
lowed outside  his  cage  jor  a  single  hour  in  three 
years. 

This  place  was  built  twenty  years  ago.  Perhaps 
the  brain  which  planned  it  is  now  dust,  neverthe- 
less its  ignorant  conception  of  the  nature  of  mental 
disease  still  determines  the  kind  of  care  this  county 
affords  the  most  unfortunate  of  all  its  helpless 
sick.  Perhaps,  too,  the  hands  which  laid  these 
bricks  and  forged  these  iron  bars  are  now  dead, 
nevertheless  they  still  stretch  out  of  the  past  and 
crush  the  living  in  their  cruel  grasp.  The  con- 
ception of  mental  diseases  which  gave  to  this 
county  this  dreadful  place  did  not  even  reflect  the 
enlightenment  of  its  own  period.  Eighty  years 
earlier  Esquirol  had  stirred  the  pity  of  France  by  a 
recital  of  miseries  no  worse  than  those  which  you 
can  see  in  this  county  to-day.  Many  years  before 
this  place  was  built,  Conolly  had  aroused  public 
opinion  in  England  to  such  an  extent  that  it  was 
possible  for  cages  such  as  these  to  exist  in  only  the 
darkest  corners  of  the  land.  Thirty  years  before 
this  grim  structure  arose  from  the  fair  soil  of  Texas, 
Dorothea  Dix  was  showing  the  inhumanity  of  alms- 
house care  of  the  insane  in  this  country  and  mem- 
bers of  our  legislatures  were  profoundly  stirred  by 
her  descriptions  of  conditions  less  abhorrent  than 
those  which  exist  to-dav  in  the  Poor  Farm  which  I 
have  just  described.  Great  reforms  in  the  care  of 
the  insane  have  extended  over  the  entire  country 


APPENDIX  F  271 

ever  since  these  walls  were  built  but  they  have  left 
this  place  untouched  and  it  stands  to-day,  not  a  pa- 
thetic but  disused  reminder  of  the  ignorance  and 
inhumanity  of  another  age  and  of  another  kind  of 
civilization,  but  an  actual,  living  reality  repro- 
ducing, with  scarcely  a  detail  lacking,  conditions 
which  were  described  in  pitying  terms  by  the 
writers  of  four  centuries  ago. 

Standing  in  the  doorway  of  this  building  you 
can  see  evidences  of  the  material  greatness  of  the 
twentieth  century;  taking  a  single  step  inside  you 
can  see  exactly  what  the  superstition,  fear  and 
ignorance  of  the  sixteenth  century  imposed  upon 
the  insane. 

THE  INSANE  IN  COUNTY  JAILS 

The  sufferings  of  the  insane  in  the  county 
Poor  Farms  would  so  stir  the  compassion  of  the 
humane  people  of  this  state,  could  they  but  walk 
among  these  fellow-citizens  of  theirs  and  witness 
the  misery  to  which  they  have  been  abandoned, 
that  almshouse  care  would  not  survive  the  next 
session  of  the  legislature.  Take  away,  however, 
the  meager  attention  given  in  the  Poor  Farms  by 
those  who,  while  they  know  nothing  of  mental 
diseases  or  of  how  to  care  for  them,  are  moved 
by  kindly  impulses  and  recognize  that  the  insane 
are  sent  to  them  for  care  and  not  for  punishment ; 
take  away  this  and  substitute  the  harsh  discipline 
of  the  prison  which  is  designed,  by  its  painful 
memories,  to  restrain  evildoers  from  crime.  Then 
some  picture  can  be  formed  of  the  lot  of  these 
poor  sick  people  in  county  jails.  Almost  without 
exception,  they  have  committed  no  crime,  unless 
it  be  a  crime  to  suffer  from  mental  illness,  but  they 
share  the  lot  of  criminals  and  in  many  cases  through 


272  APPENDIX  F 

the  fears  of  their  jailers  they  are  denied  even  the 
small  liberties  allowed  the  criminals.  Men  and 
women,  white  people  and  negroes,  those  scarcely 
out  of  childhood  and  those  filled  with  the  pains 
and  infirmities  of  age,  those  with  types  of  mental 
disease  which  would  yield  readily  to  even  the 
simplest  treatment  and  those  doomed  to  mental 
darkness  all  their  days,  I  have  seen  them  in  the 
cells  of  the  county  jails  of  Texas  and  learned  their 
needs  and  witnessed  their  sufferings  at  first  hand. 
I  can  only  say  that  I  have  never  witnessed  such 
depths  of  misery  as  those  in  which  these  unfor- 
tunate people  drag  out  the  months  and  years. 
Death  releases  some — the  more  fortunate — but 
the  others  continue  to  exist  in  filthy  cells  without 
that  hope  of  release  after  a  definite  period,  which 
cheers  the  criminals  whose  lot  they  share.  The 
rigors  of  the  jail  are  intended  to  impress  evil- 
doers with  the  terrors  of  the  law  but  with  few 
exceptions  the  prisoners  in  county  jails  are  young 
men,  most  of  them  in  sturdy  health.  It  is  needless 
to  point  out  how  much  more  severe  punishment 
confinement  in  such  places  is  to  the  unfortunate 
insane,  broken  in  health,  many  of  them  acutely 
conscious  of  the  terrible  wrong  which  their  state 
is  inflicting  upon  them  and  the  prey  to  delusional 
and  hallucinatory  terrors,  as  well  as  to  those 
which  depend  upon  actuality. 

In  not  a  few  instances  I  found  the  insane  in 
solitary  confinement,  simply  on  account  of  their 
mental  disease,  while  the  criminals  enjoyed  the 
companionship  of  their  fellows.  Every  convention 
of  life  is  swept  away  when  these  unfortunate  people 
enter  the  jails.  Women  are  bathed  by  men  in  the 
presence  of  male  prisoners,  persons  with  elusions 
of  sin  and  impending  punishment  lie  in  cells  which 
face  the  gallows,  the  weak  and  helpless  are  not 


APPENDIX  F  273 

even  protected  from  physical  violence,  and,  in 
most  cases,  there  is  not  the  slightest  semblance 
of  personal  care  or  nursing.  The  jailers  feel  that 
they  have  discharged  their  full  duty  if  the  insane 
are  prevented  from  escaping.  Persons  convicted 
of  serious  crimes  enter  the  jails,  serve  their  sen- 
tences and  regain  their  liberty  while  the  insane, 
who  have  led  upright  lives  and  have  contributed 
by  their  honest  toil  to  the  prosperity  of  their 
state,  lie  in  their  cells  without  hope  of  release.  A 
pathetic  fact  is  that  the  counties  pay  the  sheriffs 
more  just  for  feeding  the  poor  people  than  their 
care  would  cost  in  the  state  hospitals  for  the 
insane.  It  is  needless  to  dwell  further  on  the 
inhumanity  and  the  injustice  of  confining  the  in- 
sane in  the  county  jails.  It  constitutes  a  blot 
upon  the  honor  of  the  state  which  every  citizen 
would  demand  erased  were  the  actual  facts  widely 
known. 

z8 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

THE  COUNTY  GENERALLY 

Books  and  Collections  of  Papers 

American  Academy  of  Political  and  Social  Science,  Philadel- 
phia, **  County  Government.  ..."  {Its  Annals,  v.  47, 
whole  No.  136.)     May,  1913.     326  pp. 

Fairlie,  John  A.,  Local  Government  in  Counties y  Towns  and  Vil- 
lages. New  York,  The  Century  Co.,  1906.  289  pp.  (The 
American  State  series)  Bibliography. 

The  New  York  short  ballot  organization:  Proceedings  of  the 
First  Conference  for  better  County  Government.  Schenec- 
tady, N.  Y.,  Nov.  13-14, 1914. 

Book  References 

Beard,  C.  A.     American  Government  and  Politics.     New  and  rev. 

ed.  New  York,  The  Macmillan  Co.,  19 14.     788  pp.     See 

Index  under  county. 
Bristow,  a.  S.  H.     "Counties."     (In   American  and   English 

Encyclopcedia  of  Law.    2nd  ed.     Northport,  N.  Y.,   1898. 

V.  7:  898-972.) 
Clark,  F.  H.     Outlines  of  Civics;  being  a  supplement  to  Bryce's 

American  Commonwealth,  abridged  edition,  .  .  .  New  York 

and   London,   The   Macmillan   Company,   1899.     261    pp. 

"The  County":  pp.  148-178. 
Fairlie,    J.  A.     "County    Government."     (In   Cyclopcedia   of 

American  Government,  New  York,  1914.     V.  i:  492-497.) 
Fisher,  S.  B.     "Counties."     (In  Mack,  William,  gj.    Cyclopoedia 

of  Law  and  Procedure.     New  York,  1904.    V.  11:  325-615.) 

275 


276  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

FiSKE,  J.  Civil  Government  in  the  United  States,  Considered  with 
some  Reference  to  its  Origin.  New  ed.,  with  additions. 
Boston,  New  York,  Houghton,  Mifflin  &  Co.  1904,  378 
pp.     See  Index  under  county. 

Flickinger,  J.  R.  Civil  Government  as  Developed  in  the  States 
and  in  the  United  States.  Boston,  D.  C.  Heath_&  Co.,  1901. 
350  pp.     See  Index  under  county. 

GoODNOW,  F.  J.  Municipal  Home  Rule;  a  Study  in  Administra^ 
tion.  New  York,  The  Columbia  University  Press,  The 
Macmillan  Co.,  agents,  1906.  283  pp.  See  Index  under 
county  in  United  States. 

Marriott,  Crittenden.  How  Americans  are  Governed  in  Nation^ 
State,  and  City.  New  York  and  London,  Harper  &  Brothers, 
1910.     372  pp.     "  Counties  and  Towns  " :     pp.  256-259. 

Miller,  W.  A.  Civil  Government,  State  and  Federal;  an  Exposi- 
tion of  our  Policy.  Boston,  New  York,  B.  H.  Sanborn  &  Co., 
1910.     264  pp.     "The  County":    pp.  23-37. 

Moses,  B.  The  Government  of  the  United  States.  New  York,  D. 
Appleton  &  Co.,  1911.  424  pp.  (Twentieth  Century  Text- 
books, ed.  by  A.  F.  Nightingale.)     "County  Government": 

pp.  313-315- 
Rader,  p.  S.     Civil  Government  of  the  United  States  and  the  State 

of  Missouri.     Rev.  ed.     Jefferson  City,   Mo.     The  Hugh 

Stephens  Co.     1912.     351pp.     "Counties":    pp.  246-257. 

Sherman,    W.    H.     Civics:     Studies   in   American    Citizenship, 

New  York,  London,  The  Macmillan  Co.,  1905.      328  pp. 

"  The  County  " :     pp.  48-53. 

Magazine  Articles  and  Monographs 

Bailey,  W.  L.  "The  County  Community  and  its  Government." 
In  Annals  of  American  Academy,  May,  19 13,  pp.  14-25. 

Cartwright,  O.  G.  "Some  needs  to  be  considered  in  Recon- 
structing County  Government."  In  Proceedings  of  the  First 
Conference  for  better  County  Government.  19 14.  The  New 
York  Short  Ballot  Organization. 

Childs,  R.  S.  "Ramshackle  County  Government."  Outlookf 
May  3,  1916. 

Gilbertson,  H.  S.     "The  Discovery  of  the  County  Problem. 
American  Review  of  Reviews,  Nov.,  1912.     V.  46:  604-608. 


»» 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  277 

GiLBERTSON,  H.  S.  "Elements  of  the  County  Problem."  In 
Annals  of  the  American  Academy,  May,  1913,  pp.  13. 

Taylor,  G.  "The  County,  a  Challenge  to  Humanized  Politics 
and  Volunteer  Co-operation"  (president's  address  at  forty- 
first  annual  meeting.  National  Conference  of  Charities  and 
Corrections.     16   pp.) 

Individual  States 

"^-^ILLER,  E.  J.  "New  Departure  in  County  Government:  Cali- 
fornia's Experiment  with  Home  Rule  Charters."  American 
Political  Science  Review,  Aug.,  1913.     V.  7:  411-419. 

Fairlie,  J.  A.  "County  and  Town  Government  in  Illinois." 
In  Annals  of  American  Academy,  May  1913.     pp.  62-78. 

Illinois.  Laws,  Statutes,  etc.  A  compilation  of  the  laws  of 
Illinois,  relating  to  township  organization  and  management  of 
county  affairs.  26th  ed.,  rev.  Chicago,  The  Legal  Adviser 
Pub.  Co.     1910.     863  pp. 

Indiana,  State  Board  of  Accounts.  Information  concerning 
the  business  in  county  and  township  offices  during  the 
fiscal   year  ending   Dec.    31,    191 1.      (Indianapolis,    1912.) 

352  pp. 
Lapp,  J.  A.     "Checks    on  County  Government   in    Indiana." 
Annals  of  American    Academy,    May,    1913.       pp.    248- 

254. 
WiLHELM,  L.  W.     Local  Institutions  of  Maryland.     Baltimore, 

N.  Murray,  publication  agent,  Johns  Hopkins  University, 
1885.  129  pp.  (Johns  Hopkins  University  studies  in  Histori- 
cal and  Political  Science,  3rd  ser.  v.  5-7.) 

ScROGGS,  W.  O.  "  Parish  Government  in  Louisiana."  In  Annals 
of  American  Academy,  May,  1913,  pp.  39-47. 

Bemis,  Edward  W.  "Local  Government  in  Michigan  and  the 
Northwest."  Read  before  the  American  Social  Science 
Assn.,  Sept.  7,  1882.  Baltimore,  Johns  Hopkins  University, 
1883.  25  pp.  {Johns  Hopkins  University  Studies  in  Histori' 
cal  and  Political  Science,     ist  ser.,  V.) 

Carter,  C.  P.  The  Government  of  Missouri.  Boston,  New 
York,  Silver,  Burdett  and  Company  (1912).  171  pp. 
(with  Lansing,  Robert,  Government:  Its  Origin,  Growth  and 
Form  in  the  United  States  .  .  .  New  York,  Boston,  1902). 
'The  County":     pp.  39-47. 


<i ' 


278  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

LoEB,  I.  "County  Government  in  Missouri."  In  Annals  of  the 
American  Academy,  May,  1913,  pp.  48-61. 

Paul  W.  "County  Management  in  New  Jersey."  In  Proceed- 
ings of  the  Conference  for  the  Study  and  Reform  of  County 
Government  (second  meeting).  19 14.  The  New  York  Short 
Ballot  Organization. 

"The  Movement  for  County  Reorganization  in  New  Jersey." 

Annals  of  American  Academy.     May,  1913.     pp.  255-257. 

Gilbert,  F.  B.  Bender's  supervisors',  county  and  town  officers' 
manual,  containing  the  county,  town,  highway,  general 
municipal,  tax  and  poor  laws  in  full  and  all  other  statutes 
of  the  state  of  New  York,  relating  to  boards  of  supervisors, 
town  boards,  county  and  town  officers,  and  the  affairs  and 
business  of  counties  and  towns,  as  amended  to  the  close  of 
the  legislature  of  1912  .  .  .  6th.  ed.  Albany,  N.  Y.  M. 
Bender  &  Co.,  1912.     1349  pp. 

Cartwright,  O.  G.  "  County  Government  in  New  York  State." 
Annals  of  the  American  Academy.    May,  1913.    pp.  258-270. 

GiLBERTSON,  H.  S.  "The  New  York  County  System."  Ameri- 
can Political  Science  Review.     Aug.,  19 14.     pp.  413-430. 

Buck,  Geo.  S.  "The  Organization  of  County  Government." 
In  Proceedings  of  the  Academy  of  Political  Science,  New  York. 
Jan.,  1915. 

Rockefeller,  L.  K.  "County  Government  from  the  Comp- 
troller's Standpoint."  Proceedings  of  the  Conference  for  the 
Study  and  Reform  of  County  Government  (third  meeting). 
1914.     The  New  York  Short  Ballot  Organization. 

Guess,  W.  C.  County  Government  in  Colonial  North  Carolina. 
191 1.  39  pp.  (The  University  of  North  Carolina.)  The 
James  Sprunt  historical  publications  pub.  under  the  direction 
of  the  North  Carolina  Historical  Society,  v.  11,  No.  i. 

U'Ren,  W.  S.  "State  and  County  Government  in  Oregon  and 
Proposed  Changes."  Annals  of  American  Academy,  May, 
1913.     pp.  271-273. 

Ramage,  B.  J.  Local  Government  and  Free  Schools  in  South 
Carolina.  Baltimore,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  1883  .  40 
pp.  {Johns  Hopkins  University  Studies  in  Historical  and 
Political  Science,     ist  ser.,  v.  12.) 

Channing,  E.  "Town  and  County  Government  in  the  English 
Colonies  of  North  America."    The  Toppan  prize  essay  for 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  279 

1883.      Baltimore,    N.    Murray,   publication  agent    {Johns 

Hopkins  University  Studies  in  Historical  and  Political  Science, 

2nd  ser.,  x)  2nd  ser.,  v.  lo. 
Hitchcock,  L.  E.     Powers  and  Duties  of  Sheriffs,   Constables, 

Tax  Collectors,  and  other  Officers  in  the  New  England  States. 

With  forms  and  precedents.    2nd  ed.    Boston,  Little,  Brown 

&  Co.     1914.     472  pp. 
Updyke.     "County  Government  in  New  England."     In  Annals 

of  American  Academy,  May,  1913.     pp.  26-37. 


Studies  and  Surveys  of  Individual  Counties 

J 

Alameda  County,  Cal.     Bulletins  covering  the  investigation  of 

many  phases  of  county  administration.     Tax  Association  of 

Alameda  County,  823  Oakland  Bank  of  Savings  Building, 

Oakland,  Cal. 
Cook  County,  III.     Surveys  of  various  county  offices,  in  pamphlet 

form.     Bureau  of  Public  Efficiency,  315  Plymouth  Court, 

Chicago,  111.     1911-1916. 
Monroe  County,  N.  Y.     Government  of  Monroe  County,  N.  Y., 

organization  and  functions.     The  New  York  Constitutional 

Convention  Commission.     1915. 
Nassau  County,  N.   Y.     Government  of  Nassau  County,  N.  Y., 

description  of  organization  and  functions.     Commission  on 

the  Government  of  Nassau  County,  Mineola,  N.  Y.     191 5. 
Siffolk  County,  N.  Y.    First  Annual  Report  of  the  Suffolk  County 

Taxpayers' Association.     1915.    (Secretary's  office,  44  Court 

Street,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.) 
Westchester  County,  N.  Y.     Various  pamphlet  publications  of  the 

Westchester    County   Research    Bureau,   15  Court   Street, 

White  Plains,  N.  Y.     1911-1916. 
Hudson   County,   N.   J.     The  government  of  Hudson  County. 

(Dissertation  for  Ph.D.  degree,  Columbia  University,  191 5.) 

The  Citizens'  Federation  of  Hudson  County  issues  reports 

on  special  phases  of  Hudson  County  affairs  from  time  to 

time. 
Cuyahoga  County,  0.     The  Civic  League  of  Cleveland,  Guardian 

Bldg.,  Cleveland,  publishes  reports  on  county  offices  and 

methods  from  time  to  time. 


280  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Milwaukee  County,  Wis.  The  Milwaukee  County  government,  a 
bulletin  of  the  City  Club  (a  joint  report  of  the  committee  on 
county  administration,  civil  service  and  county  institutions 
and  buildings).     191 5-     The  City  Club  of  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

City- County  Relations 

Bruere,  H.  and  Wallstein,  L.  M.  Study  of  County  Government 
within  the  City  of  New  York  and  a  Plan  for  its  Reorganization. 
Prepared  for  the  New  York  Constitutional  Convention,  191 5. 
44  pp.,  diagrams,  tabulations. 

Chicago  Bureau  of  Public  Efficiency.  The  Nineteen  Local  Govern- 
ments of  Chicago,  19 1 5.     30  pp.,  charts. 

HoRMELL,  O.  C.  "Boston's  County  Problems."  Annals  of 
American  Academy,  May,  1913.     Pp.  134  et  seq. 

Hatmaker.  "Schenectady's  City-County  Plan."  In  Pro- 
ceedings of  the  first  Conference  for  better  County  Government. 
The  New  York  Short  Ballot  Organization,  19 14. 

King,  C.  L.  "Report  of  the  City-County  Committee  of  the 
American  Political  Science  Assn."  American  Political 
Science  Review,  Feb.,  1914,  sup.,  v.  8:  281-291. 

Long,  P.  V.  "Consolidated  City  and  County  Government  of 
San  Francisco."  American  Political  Science  Review,  Feb., 
1912,  sup.,  V.  6:  109-121. 

LuDiNGTON,  A.  "The  Relation  of  County  to  City  Government 
in  New  York."  American  Political  Science  Review,  Feb., 
1912,  sup.,  V.  6:73-88. 

Paul,  W.  and  Gilbertson,  H.  S.  "Counties  of  the  First  Class 
in  New  Jersey."  American  Political  Science  Review,  Feb., 
1914,  sup.,  V.  8:  292-300. 

Young,  T.  P.  "The  Separation  of  City  and  County  Govern- 
ments in  St.  Louis,  History  and  Purposes."  American 
Political  Science  Review,  Feb.,  1912,  sup.,  v.  6:  97-108. 

Charities 

BuRRiTT,  B.  B.  "County  Management  of  Charities  and  Special 
Institutions  in  our  Own  State  (N.  Y.)."  In  Proceedings  of 
the  Conference  for  the  Study  and  Reform  of  County  Government 
(second  meeting).  The  New  York  Short  Ballot  Organiza- 
tion. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  281 

Harris,  E.  F.  "  Charity  Functions  of  the  Pennsylvania  County." 
Annals  of  American  Academy,  May,  1913,  pp.  166-181. 

Haviland,  C.  F.  The  Treatment  and  Care  oj  the  Insane  in 
Pennsylvania.  The  Public  Charities  Association.  Phila- 
delphia, 191 5.     94  pp. 

Lane,  Winthrop  D.    "A  Rich  Man  in  the  Poor  House."    Survey^ 
Nov.  4,  1916. 
^  Macy,    V.    E.     "Administration    of    County    Charities."     In 
Proceedings  of  the  First  Conference  for  better  County  Govern- 
ment.    1914.     The  New  York  Short  Ballot  Organization. 

Civil  Service 

^,    Belcher,  R.  W.     "The  Merit  System  and  the  County  Civil 
Service."     Annals   of  American  Academy,  May,  19 13,  pp. 

lOI-III. 

Paul,    W.     "The    County   Employee."     Annals   of  American 
^  Academy^  May,  1913,  pp.  81-84. 

The  Coroner 

Chicago  Bureau  of  Public  Efficiency.     Administration  of  the  Office 

of  the  Coroner  of  Cook  County,  III.     191 1.     68  pp. 
Civic  League  of  Cleveland  (formerly  the  municipal  association). 

The  Coroner's  office,  1912.     30  pp. 
Du  ViviER,  J.     "Abolishment  of  the  Coroner's  Office."       In 

Proceedings  of  the  Conference  for  the  Study  and  Reform  of 

Coujity   Government    (second   meeting).     1914.      The    New 

York  Short  Ballot  Organization. 
New  York  Short  Ballot  Organization.     Abolishment  of  the  office 

of  Coroner  in  New  York  City.     1914.     16  pp. 
ScHULTZ,  O.  T.     "The  Coroner's  Office."     In  Annals  of  American 

Academy.     May,  1913,  pp.  112-119. 

County  Courts  and  Court  Clerks 

Bureauof  Public  Efficiency,  Nov.,  1912.  44  pp.  Administration 
of  the  Office  of  Clerk  of  the  County  Court  of  Cook  County,  III. 

Harley,  H.  "The  County  Judiciary."  In  Proceedings  of  the 
First  Conference  for  better  County  Government. 

The  Chicago  Bureau  of  Public  Efficiency.  The  Judges  and  the 
County  Fee  Offices.     191 1.     15  pp. 


282  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Woods,  K.  P.  " The  Passing  of  County  Courts."  (In  Virginia.) 
Outlook,  Jan.  31,  1903,  v.  73:  264-265. 

County  Politics 

T  Jones,  C.  L.     "The  County  in  Politics."     In  Annals  of  American 
'  Academy^  May,  1913,  pp.  85-100. 

The  District  Attorney 

Gans,  H.  S.  "The  Public  Prosecutor:  his  Powers,  Temptations 
and  Limitations."  .  .  .  Annals  of  American  Academy, M.a.y, 
1913,  pp.  120-133. 

Financial  Administration 

BoYCE,  J.  E.     "County  Budgets:  Economy  and  Efficiency  in 

Expenditures."     Annals  of  American  Academy,  May,    1913, 

pp.  199-212. 
Buck,  Geo.  S.     "The  County  Auditor."     In  Proceedings  of  the 

first  Conference  for  better  County  Government.     The  New  York 

Short  Ballot  Organization.     19 14. 
Cartwright,  O.  G.    "County  Budgets  and  their  Construction." 

Annals  of  American  Academy,  Nov.,  1915,  pp.  223-234. 
Chicago  Bureau  of  Public  Efficiency.     "The  Budget  of  Cook 

County,  111."     Jan.,  1911.     54  pp.     "  The  office  of  Treasurer 

of  Cook  County,  111."     1913.     68  pp. 
CooKiNGHAM,  H.  J.,  Jr.     "Taxation  and  County  Government 

in  New  York  State."     In  Proceedings  of  the  First  Conference 

for  Better  County  Government. 
CoKER,  F.  W.     "Administration  of  Local  Taxation  in  Ohio." 

Annals  of  American  Academy,  May,  1913,  pp.  182-198. 

Home  Rule 

National  Municipal  Review.     "County  Home  Rule,"  Jan.,  1913, 

sup.,  V.  2:  2-7. 
Works,  L.  R.     "County  Home  Rule  in  California."    Annals  of 

American  Academy,  May,  1913,  pp.  229-236. 


<»4 

BIBLIOGRAPHY  283 

Prisons 

"Centralization  of  the  Custody  of  Prisoners  within  the  City  of 

New  York."     Report  of  the  Commissioner  of  Accounts, 

Transmitted  to  the  Mayor,  Feb.,  28,  1916. 
Lewis,  O.  F.     "County  Prisons."     Proceedings  of  the  Conference 

for  the  Study  and  Reform  of  County  Government,  first  meeting. 

The  New  York  Short  Ballot  Organization,  19 14. 

The  Recorder 

"Administration  of  the  Office  of  Recorder  of  Cook  County,  111." 
Report  prepared  for  the  judges  of  the  circuit  court  by  the 
Chicago  Bureau  of  Public  Efficiency,  Sep.,  191 1.     63  pp. 

"The  Recorder's  Office."  Civic  League  of  Cleveland,  Mar., 
1914.     Report  No.  3,  Efficiency  Series.     25  pp. 

Reorganization 

Childs,  R.  S.  "The  County  Manager  Plan."  In  Proceedings 
of  the  first  Conference  for  Better  County  Government.  1914. 
The  New  York  Short  Ballot  Organization. 

"A  Theoretically   Perfect  County."     Annals  of  American 

Academy,  May,  19 13,  pp.  274-278. 

"The  Short  Ballot  County  Amendment."  Brief  submitted  to 
the  Constitutional  Convention  of  New  York,  19 15.  The 
New  York  Short  Ballot  Organization,  1915.     16  pp. 

The  Sheriff 

Cawcroft,  E.  "The  Sheriff  and  a  State  Constabulary."  In 
Proceedings  of  the  First  Conference  for  Better  County  Govern- 
ment. 

Civic  League  of  Cleveland.  (Formerly  the  municipal  associa- 
tion.)    The  Sheriff's  office,  1912.     26  pp. 

State  Administrative  Supervision  • 

Brindley,  J.  E.  "State  Supervision  of  County  Assessment  and 
Taxation."  Annals  of  American'  Academy,  May,  1913, 
pp.  213-226. 


284  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

State  Police 

"Why  the  Farms  and  Villages  of  New  York  State  Need  Protec- 
tion." 1915.  Committee  for  a  state  police,  7  East  42nd 
Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

"Why  New  York  Needs  a  State  Police."  1915.  Committee  for 
a  state  police. 


INDEX 


Accounting,  (uniform)  in  Ohio, 
122;  significance  of  better, 
181;     184-185;     unit    cost, 

Administration,  scientific,  181- 
192 

Advertising  (political),  as  a 
source  of  patronage,  53; 
see  also  County  press 

Agricultural  associations,  im- 
portance in  rural  life,  203 

Alabama,  origin  of  county 
system  in,  21;  county 
officers  elective  in,  29;  re- 
port of  prison  inspector 
quoted,  92;  lack  of  account- 
ing law  in,  122;  county 
local  option  in,  150 

Alameda  County,  Cal.,  work 
of  Tax  Association  in,  7; 
home  rule  charter  proposed 
in,  81-149;  classification  as 
an  urban  county,  154;  map 
of,  diagram  of  proposed 
federation  of,  161-162;  sav- 
ings effected  through  better 
purchasing  methods  in,  189; 
recommendations  as  to  pur- 
chasing methods  in,  190 

Almshouse,  description  of  early, 
^2,  83;  insane  in,  87,  137- 
138;  in  Westchester  County, 
200-201;  a  Texas,  266-273; 
see  South 

American  Judicature  Society, 
proposals  for  county  judi- 
ciary of,  131 

American  Revolution,  influence 


I       of   its   philosophy   on   local 

government  institutions,  25 
Appointive  power,  lack  of,  in 

county,  30 
Appointive    system,   workings 

of,  in  eastern  states,  30 
Appointments,     new     method 

employed     in     Westchester 

County,  N.  Y.,  201 
Arizona,    uniform    accounting 

law  in,  122 
Arkansas,   lack  of  accounting 

law  in,  122 
Assessment       and       taxation, 

county  as  a   unit  of,    125; 

state  control  over,  126 
Assessors,  functions  of,  in  New 

Jersey,   27,   elective  officers 

since  1693,  28 ;  local  selection 

of,  108-109 
Auditing,  significance  of  better, 

181;  187  et  seq. 
Auditor,     importance    of    in- 
dependence of,  188 
Automobile,    effect    on    rural 

life  and  government,  23 


Ballot,  insignificance  of  county 
officers  on,  in  many  cases, 

Baltimore,  abolition  of  county 
government  in,  153;  classifi- 
cation as  an  urban  county, 

154 
Board  of  Chosen  Freeholders, 

powers  reduced  in  Hudson 

County,  N.  J.,  38 


285 


286 


INDEX 


Board  of  Supervisors,  clerks 
of,  in  New  York,  appear 
before  constitutional  con- 
vention, 3;  function  in  fiscal 
administration  of,  14;  duty 
of,  in  law  enforcement,  132- 
133;  how  constituted  in 
ideal  county,  171;  text  of 
provisions  in  Los  Angeles 
County  charter  concerning, 
220-223 ;  see  also  Governing 
body 

Boroughs,  proposed  division  of 
Alameda  County,  Cal.,  into, 
160 

Boston,  city-county  consolida- 
tion  in,    158;    metropolitan 

i  district  compared  to  London , 
164 

Boundaries  (county),  made 
obsolete  by  conditions  of 
modern  life,  23;  power  to 
change  count^^,  113;  neces- 
sity for  relocation  of,  153 

Boyle,  Prof.  John  A.,  on  report- 
ing and  accounting  laws ,  122 

Bramhall,  F.  D,  on  obscurity 
of  urban  counties,  65 

Bridges,  frauds  in  building  of, 
77;  awarding  of  contracts 
for,  98-99;  awarding  of 
contracts  for,  in  Polk 
County,  Iowa,  100;  see 
Roads  and  bridges 

Bronx  County,  N.  Y.,  forma- 
tion of,  24 

Budget,  importance  of  ade- 
quate county  executive  in 
making  of,  176;  nature  of, 
177;  significance  of  better, 
181;  accounting  basis  for, 
185-187 

Buffalo,  N.  Y.,  relation  to 
county,  1 54 ;  see  Erie  County 

Bureau  of  Inspection,  etc.,  in 
Ohio,  121 

Bureau  of  Public  Efficiency, 
(Chicago),  on  special  county 
legislation,  116 

Butte  County  (Cal.),  charter 
of,  149 


California,  extent  of  merit 
system  in  counties  of,  52; 
county  legislation  in,  115; 
uniform  accounting  law  in, 
122;  salary  of  county  judges 
in,  130;  highway  progress 
and  plans  in,  142;  success 
of  municipal  home  rule  in, 
146;  county  home  rule  in, 
145-147;  county  libraries 
in,  199,  207-219;  see  also 
Alameda  County,  Los  An- 
geles County,  San  Francisco 
County,  Assessors 

Cartwright,  Otho  G.,  quoted. 

Charities,  State  Board  of,  in 
New  York,  128;  modern 
methods  in  administration 
of,  136;  gradual  abandon- 
ment of  county  as  unit  for 
administration  of,  138 

Chicago,  candidates  for  county 
offices  voted  for  in,  62;  law 
enforcement  in,  106;  county 
government  in,  114;  see  also 
Cook  County,  111. 

Chief  medical  examiner  (in 
New  York  City),  134;  text 
of  law,  257-265 

Children,  prohibition  against 
commitment  to  almshouses, 
83;  injustice  done  to  desti- 
tute, under  New  York  poor 
laws,  85;  treatment  of,  in 
Westchester  County,  202 

Cincinnati,  Ohio,  proposals  for 
city-county  consolidation  in , 

Cities,  reconstructive  forces  in 
American,  i;  greater  need 
for  government  in,  151; 
consolidation  with  counties, 
151-167;  importance  solving 
the  county  problem  of ,  167; 
commission  government  in, 
169 
Citizenship  (rural),  194 
Civil  Service,  slow  growth  of 
reform  in  counties,  52;  state 
control    over,    126-127;    in 


INDEX 


287 


Civil  Service — Continued 
Los  Angeles    County,  Cal., 
172-173,231-239 

Clerk  of  Court,  duties  of,  13; 
relation  to  the  bench,  135; 
see  County  Clerk 

Cleveland,  Ohio,  county  gov- 
ernment in,  114;  proposal 
for  city-county  consolida- 
tion in,  152;  relation  to 
county,  154 

Clinton  County,  N.  Y., 
(County  "B  "),  irregularities 
in  county  offices  of,  72-73 

Colorado,  establishment  of 
counties  in,  22;  extent  of 
merit  system  in,  52 ;  uniform 
accounting  law  in,  122; 
provisions  in  constitution 
of,  affecting  Denver,  155 

Commission  plan  of  city  gov- 
ernment, 169 

Commissioner  of  Charities  and 
Correction,  202 

Commissioners  (county)  in 
Pennsylvania,  28 

Commitments  to  almshouses, 
— abuses  of,  in  New  York, 
85,  200 

Comptroller  (state),  ineffec- 
tive as  check  upon  county 
officers  without  adequate 
examining  staff,  36 

Connecticut,  origin  of  county 
in,  9;  local  system  of  courts 
in,  12;  public  prosecutor  in, 
12;  influence  of  Massachu- 
setts precedents  in,  19; 
convention  in,  38;  appoin- 
tive judiciary  in,  131 

Consolidation  (city  and 
county),  under  California 
constitution,  149;  in  general, 
151-167 

Constables,  law  enforcement 
by,  in  New  York  State,  107, 
138 

Constabulary,  Pennsylvania, 
140;  in  Los  Angeles  County 
charter,  231 

Constitution      (state),     provi- 


sions   concerning    counties, 
112,  115 

Cook  County,  111.,  President 
of  Board  of  Commissioners 
elected  by  people,  40;  large 
fees  of  treasurer  in,  51; 
county  commissioners  pre- 
vent accounting  for  county 
treasurer's  fees,  52;  duplica- 
tion of  local  governments 
in,  63;  humanitarian  func- 
tions of,  80,  81;  prisoners 
in  county  jail  of,  80;  insane 
cared  for  by,  8 1 ;  dependent 
children  cared  for  by,  81; 
appropriations  for,  in  1 9 1 3 , 8 1 

Coroner,  origin  of,  13;  falsity 
of  theory  underlying  his 
election,  32;  fees  of,  50; 
failures  in  urban  counties, 
59;  abolition  of,  proposed, 
133  J  appointive,  172;  see 
Massachusetts,  New  York 
(city) 

Corruption  and  form  of  govern- 
ment, 102 

Council,  powers  of,  in  Indiana 
counties,  37 

Council  of  appointment  in 
New  York  State,  28 

County,  the,  treatment  of 
problem  in  New  York  con- 
stitutional convention,  2, 
3;  popular  apathy  concern- 
ing, 5;  neglect  of,  in  college 
courses,  and  by  journalists, 
6;  general  statistics  con- 
cerning, in  U.  S.,  7-8; 
colonial  origin  of,  9  et  seq.; 
legal  relation  to  state 
government,  10,  11;  general 
manner  of  its  development, 
22-23  5  decline  of,  in  England, 
23;  unadapted  to  urban 
conditions,  24;  its  failure 
as  a  humanitarian  agency, 
92;  relation  to  state  govern- 
ment, 1 13,  127, 128 ;  power  to 
erect  new,  113;  limitation  on 
powers  of,  113;  misuse  of 
funds  by,   120;  as  unit  for 


288 


INDEX 


County — Contintied 

tax  assessment,  125;  growing 
importance  of,  in  certain 
directions,  143 ;  superiority 
over  town  as  tax  assessment 
and  collection  unit,  144; 
abolishment  of,  proposed  in 
New  York  City,  157;  the 
ideal,  168 

chambers    of    commerce, 

203 

clerk,  duties  of,  13;  in- 
dependence of  county  judge, 
130;  relation  to  the  bench, 
135;  appointment  of  ad- 
vocated, 135;  appointive 
method  of  selection  of,  171, 
172 

committee,  actual  power 

in  selecting  county  officers, 
48;  basis  of  party  organiza- 
tion, 55 

court,  consisted  of  justices 

of  the  peace  in  Virginia,  17; 
its  administrative  functions 
in  some  states,  17;  jurisdic- 
tion of,  129-132;  see  also 
County  Judge,  Cook  County 

custodian,  office  of,  created 

in  a  New  York  county,  5 
governments,  lack  of  con- 


trol over  local  policies,  15; 
ineffectual  in  operation  ow- 
ing to  lack  of  unity,  43; 
lack  of  popular  interest  in 
and  its  effects,  43-44;  their 
stereotyped  condition  in  face 
of  new  responsibilities,  60; 
at  work,  66-79;  defects  in, 
as  affecting  highway  matters, 
95;  general  criticism  of, 
170 

health  officers  in   North 


Carolina,  195-196 

hospital    in   Westchester 

County  (N.  Y.),  202 

jail,  separate  jurisdiction 

of,  in  Milwaukee,  62;  over- 
crowding of,  91;  buildings 
faultily  constructed  and 
unsanitary,     91;     need     of 


publicity  concerning,  92 ; 
in  Westchester  County 
(N.  Y.),  202;  insane  in, 
271-273;  see  also  Cook 
County,  111. 

—  judge  formerly  appointed 
coimty  officers  in  Tennessee, 
28;  see  also  New  York 
(state).  County  Court 

—  libraries,  198-199 
lieutenant,  militia  officer 


in  colonies,  17 
—  manager,  proposed,  175; 
probable  influence  of,  176- 
177;  proposed  in  Oregon, 
178;  in  New  York,  178-179; 
in  Alameda  County,  Cal., 
180;  text  of  proposed  law 
providing  for,  251-256 
officers,  duties  of.  in  colo- 


nial New  England,  18;  effect 
of  obscurity  on,  44;  effect 
of  divided  allegiance  upon 
efficiency  of,  68;  in  Los 
Angeles  County,  223-225 ; 
under  Los  Angeles  County 
charter,  227-229 

—  physician,  in  New  Jer- 
sey functions  of,  134;  in 
North  Carolina,  195 

—  planning  in  Westchester 
County,  N.  Y.,  197-198 

poor  farm  in  Westchester 


County,  N.  Y.,  201 

—  prisons,  administration  of, 
by  counties,  89-92;  see  also 
County  jail 

—  superintendent  of  schools 


appointive,  172 

surveyor  as  road  master, 


96 

treasurer,      created      in 

Massachusetts,  18;  see 
Cook  County,  111. 

Court  houses,  scandals  char- 
acteristic of  building  of, 
76;     in     Hudson     County, 

N.  J.,  74-75 
Courts,       differentiation  01 
functions    necessary    in  ur- 
ban   communities,    59;  see 


INDEX 


289 


Courts — Cotitinu^d 

also  County'  Court,  local 
system  of,  in  colonial  Con- 
necticut, 12 

Cox,  Governor  James  J.,  efforts 
to  improve  tax  assessment 
system  in  Ohio,  in 

Cuyahoga  County,  O.,  see 
Cleveland 

Dakota,  alternative  plans  of 
county  government  in 
territory  of,  22 

Darke  County,  O.,  manage- 
ment of  road  affairs  by 
board  of  commissioners,  98 

Dayton,  O.,  city  manager 
plan  in,  175 

Defectives,  treatment  of,  in 
Westchester  County,  N.  Y,, 
201 

Delaware,  lack  of  accounting 
law  in,  122 

Democracy,  spirit  of,  in  early 
nineteenth  century,   25-26 

Denver,  selection  of  sheriff 
by  mayor  in,  133;  classifica- 
tion as  an  urban  county, 
154;  constitutional  provi- 
sions affecting  government 
of,  155-156;  commission 
form  of  government  in,  156; 
power  of  mayor  in,  156; 
unified  control  in,  174 

Deputy  (chief)  county  officers, 
importance  of,  and  relation 
to  elective  superiors,  50 

Direct  primary,  doubtful  value 
of,   in    county    government, 

48. 
District  attorney  (state),  origin 

of,  in  colonial  Connecticut, 
12-13;  popular  interest  in, 
46;  elected  on  false  issue  of 
law  enforcement,  107-108; 
functions  of,  134;  essentially 
a  local  oflEicer,  155;  see  New 
York  (state);  see  also  Pros- 
ecutor 
District  attorney  (federal), 
method  of  selection  con- 
19 


trasted   with  that   of   local 
prosecutors,  33 

Efficiency,  Bureau  of   (in  Los 

Angeles  County),  191 
Elective  road  ofhcials,  96 
Electric    railways,    effect    on 
rural  life  and  government, 

23 

Engineering  services,  duplica- 
tion of  in  Milwaukee,  62 

England,  importance  of  its 
precedents  in  colonies,  17 

Erie  County,  N.  Y.,  form  of 
county  government  in,  114 

Essex  County,  N.  J.,  classifi- 
cation as  urban  county,  154; 
county  park  system  in,  163; 
office  of  supervisor  in,  173- 

174 

Examiners    (state),    character 

of  service  rendered  to  local 
officials,  123 
Executive,    how    absence     of, 
militates  against  proper  law 
enforcement,  34-35,  74 

Federation,  proposed  in  Ala- 
meda County,  Cal.,  159- 
160 

Feeble-minded,  removed  from 
county  control,  83 

Fees,  attraction  of,  to  politician 
and  disposition  of,  50-51; 
of  coroner,  50;  theory  of 
system,  51 ;  failure  of  system, 
51,  202;  abolishment  of,  in 
Los  Angeles  County,  173 

Finance,  laxity  in  methods  of, 
70;  in   bridge   construction, 

183 
Fire    protection,    proposed    as 

county  function  in  Alameda 

County,  Cal.,  160 

Flaherty  v.  MilHken,  decision 
in,  involving  sheriff's  liabil- 
ity, 53 

Florida,  uniform  accountmg 
law  in,  122 

Freeholders,  Board  of  Chosen, 
(N.  J.).  173 


290 


INDEX 


Georgia,  uniform  accounting 
law  in,  122 

* '  Good  roads ' '  mo  vemen  t , 
effect  on  highway  adminis- 
tration, 95,  140 

Governing  Sody,  ill-adapted 
for  executive  functions,  41; 
insufficient  control  over  elec- 
tive county  officers,  41 ; 
see  also  Boards  of  super- 
visors. Freeholders,  Commis- 
sioners 

Governor,  formerly  appointed 
county  officers  in  Kentucky, 
28;  ineffective  control  over 
county  officers,  36;  sugges- 
tion that  sheriffs  be  ap- 
pointed by,  133;  county 
officers  appointed  by,  in 
Massachusetts,  158 

Hamilton  County  (O.),  see 
Cincinnati 

Haviland,  Dr.  C.  Floj^d,  on 
treatment  of  insane  in  Penn- 
sylvania, 88 

Health  (public),  neglected-  in 
rural  communities,  60;  be- 
ginnings and  basic  idea  of 
movement  for,  83;  county 
as  a  unit  for  administration 
of,  143;  program  of,  needed 
in  rural  sections,  under 
county  control,  195 

Highways,  as  a  unif3ang  factor 
in  modern  life,  94;  amount 
spent  in  U.  S.  in  1913,  94; 
growing  state  control  over, 
95;  diminution  of  county 
control  over,  140  et  seq., 
state  aid  for,  141;  see  also 
Roads  and  bridges 

Home  office,  relations  to  county 
of  London,  166 

Home  rule  (county),  145-150; 
text  of  provisions  in  Cali- 
fornia constitution,  207- 
218  proposed  constitutional; 
amendment  in  New  York, 
247-250 

Hospital    service,    duplication 


of  agencies  for,  in  Milwaukee 
61 ;  see  also  County  hospital 
Hudson  County,  N.  J.,  court 
house  scandal  in,  7;  boule- 
vard commission  in,  38; 
separate  powers  of  commis- 
sion, 38;  park  system,  39; 
building  of  court  house  in, 
75;  classification  as  urban 
county,    154;  supervisor  in, 

173-174  . 
Humanitarian      functions     of 

county,  80-93 


Idaho,  establishment  of  coun- 
ties in,  22;  county  local 
option  in,  150 

Illinois,  Southern  and  New 
England  influence  on  county 
system  of,  21;  county 
officers  under  first  constitu- 
tion of,  elective,  28;  system 
in,  52;  insane  in  penal 
institutions  of,  Sj\  report  of 
State  Charities  Commission 
on  county  jails,  91-92;  Sab- 
bath law  enforcement  in, 
106;  special  county  legisla- 
tion in,  116;  optional  county 
government  forms  in,  147; 
see  Cook  County 

Indiana,  origin  of  county  in, 
20;  county  officers  under 
first  constitution  elective, 
28 ;  county  government  scan- 
dal in  1898,  37;  powers  of 
county  commissioners  re- 
duced by  establishment  of 
council,  37;  illegal  payments 
by  county  officers  in,  78; 
law  enforcement  in,  107; 
uniform  reporting  in,  122 

Industrial  revolution,  indirect 
influence  on  county  govern- 
ment, 23 

Insane,  removed  from  county 
control,  83;  care  of,  by 
counties,  87-89;  first  hospi- 
tal for,  at  Utica,  N.  Y.,  137; 
see  Cook  County,  111.,  New 


INDEX 


291 


Insane — Continued 
Jersey,    Illinois,    Louisiana, 
Pennsylvania 

Institutions  (state),  see  Insane, 
Penitentiaries,  Reforma- 
tories, etc. 

Iowa,  county  township  system 
in,  20;  methods  employed 
by  supervisors  in  Woodbury 
County,  76-77;  bridge  lobby 
in  legislature  of,  loi ;  state 
control  of  highways  in,  142 ; 
see  Polk  County 

Jail,  see  County  jail 

Jersey  City  (N.  J.),  see 
Hudson  County,  N.  J. 

Judiciary  (state),  relation  of 
county  officers  to,  129-132 ; 
importance  of  reorgani- 
zation, 131;  (federal)  cited 
as  instance  of  appointive 
method  of  selection,  131 

"Jungle,"  the,  34-42 

Justices  of  the  peace,  duties 
of,  in  colonial  Virginia,  17; 
functions  in  Virginia,  27; 
power  to  commit  children 
to  almshouses  in  New  York 
State,  85 ;  reorganization  of, 
131;  jurisdiction  of,  132 

Kansas,  county-township  sys- 
tem in,  20;  report  of  roads 
and  highways  committee, 
10 1 ;  uniform  accounting  law 
in,  122 

Kentucky,  influence  of  Virginia 
upon  county  organization  of, 
20;  county  officers  made 
appointive  in  eighteenth 
century,  28;  reaction  against 
appointive  system  in,  29 ;  lack 
of  accounting  law  in,  122; 
county  local  option  in,  150 

Kings  County,  N.  Y.,  former 
office  of  supervisor-at-large 
in,  40 

Koochiching  County  (Wis.), 
county  health  organization 
in,  196 


Labor,  provisions  in  Los  An- 
geles County  charter  con- 
cerning, 239 

Law  enforcement,  lax  under 
county  officers,  70,  74;  made 
a  political  issue,  107;  unifica- 
tion of  local  agencies  for, 
suggested,  133;  see  Nullifica- 
tion 

Leadership,  importance  of,  in 
county  affairs,  176 

Legislation  (county),  uniform- 
ity in,  112 

Legislative  representation, 

often  based  upon  county,  56 

Lewis,  O.  P.,  on  county  jails 
in  New  York,  91 

Libraries,  see  County  libraries 

Local  government,  restricted 
functions  of,  in  early  nine- 
teenth century,  27;  new 
burdens  placed  upon,  as 
result  of  congestion  of  popu- 
lation, 58 

London,  functions  of  county 
of,  165;  County  Council  an 
example  of  county  govern- 
ment unification,  164-166 

Long  ballot,  its  effect  on 
organization  of  county  gov- 
ernment, 34 ;  contributions 
of  county  to,  62 

Los  Angeles  County,  Cal., 
charter  of,  61,  149,  172,  219, 
et  seq.;  county  candidates  on 
ballot  of,  62;  civil  service 
in,  191;  public  defender  in, 
200 

Louisiana,  police  jury  in,  21; 
insane  in  parish  jails,  ^j'^ 
uniform  accounting  law  in, 
122;  county  local  option  in, 
150 

Macy,  V.  Everit,  on  operation 
of  poor  law  in  New  York 
State,  84-85 ;  superintendent 
of  the  poor,  200-203 

Madison,  James,  influence  in 
favor  of  retaining  original 
county  system  in  Virginia,  29 


292 


INDEX 


Mail  facilities,  effect  on  rural 
life  and  government,  24 

Maine,  influence  of  Alassa- 
chusetts  precedents  in,  19; 
lack  of  accounting  law  in, 
122 

Marshall,  John,  influence  in 
favor  of  retaining  original 
Virginia  county  system,  29 

Marshals,  U.  S.,  method  of 
selection  contrasted  with 
that  of  sheriff,  33,  133 

Maryland,  county  govern- 
ment, 19;  lack  of  accounting 
law  in,  122;  highway  pro- 
gress in,  142;  county  libra- 
ries in,  199 

Massachusetts,  origin  and  early 
history  of  county  in,  9; 
spoils  system  in,  52;  county 
prisons  in,  90;  uniform  ac- 
counting law  in,  122;  aboli- 
tion of  coroner's  office  in, 
133;  leader  in  establishing 
state  penal  institutions,  137; 
reform  institutions  in,  137; 
state  aid  in  highway  con- 
struction in,  142;  metropoli- 
tan district  of,  154 

Medical  examiner,  suggested 
as  a  substitute  for  coroner, 
60;  in  Massachusetts,  133; 
see  also  Chief  medical  ex- 
aminer 

Medical  referee  (in  New 
Hampshire),  134 

Michigan,  township -superv- 
isor system  in,  20;  uniform 
accounting  law  in,  122; 
state  penitentiary  in,  137; 
county  local  option  in,  150 

Middle  West,  insane  in  alms- 
houses, 87-88;  New  England 
influences  in,  104 

Milwaukee,  Wis.,  report  of 
City  Club  of,  regarding  city 
and  county  offices,  61 ; 
county  government  in,  114; 
proposals  for  city-county 
consolidation  in,  152;  rela- 
tions to  county,  154 


Minnesota,  alternative  plans 
of  county  government  in, 
22;  uniform  accounting  law 
in,  122;  county  local  option 
in,  150;  county  libraries  in, 

Mississippi,  origin  of  county 
system  in,  2 1 ;  county  officers 
elective  in,  29;  lack  of  ac- 
counting law  in,  122 

Missouri,  county-township  sys- 
tem in,  20;  alternative  plans 
of,  (county  [organization  in, 
21;  county  officers  elective 
in,  29;  poor  law  and  alms- 
house administration  in,  86; 
equalization  of  taxes  in, 
no;  lack  of  accounting  law 
in,  122;  county  libraries 
in,  199 

Monroe  County,  N.  Y.,  absence 
of  road  records  in,  98 

Montana,  establishment  of 
counties  in,  22;  county  local 
option  in,  150 

Mosquito  Commission,  in  Hud- 
son County,  N.  J.,  39 

Nassau  County,  N.  Y.,  work 
of  County  Association  in,  7; 
recommendations  of  official 
commission  in,  for  county 
home  rule,  148 

National  Municipal  League, 
its  report  on  city-county 
consolidation,  153,  154 

Nebraska,  alternative  plans  of 
county  organization  in,  21; 
activity  of  bridge  builders 
in  legislature  of,  102 ;  county 
Hbraries  in,  199 

Nevada,  uniform  accounting 
law  in,  122 

New  England,  influences 
operating  on  local  govern- 
ment in,  17;  formation  of 
first  counties  in,  18;  county- 
town  relations  in,  143 

New  Hampshire,  limited  pow- 
ers of  commissioners  in,  37- 
38;  convention,  powers  and 


INDEX 


293 


New  Hampshire — Continued 
duties    of,    38;    lack    of  ac- 
counting   law   in,    122;    ap- 
pointive judiciary  in,  131 

New  Jersey,  local  assessors  in, 
19;  office  of  supervisor  in, 
39-40;  law  affecting  sheriff's 
appointments,  52;  extent  of 
merit  system  in  counties 
of,  52;  insane  in  penal  in- 
stitutions of,  87;  county 
legislation  in,  115-116;  state 
civil  service  regulation  in, 
127;  the  surrogate  in,  130; 
appointive  judiciary  in,  131 ; 
optional  county  government 
forms  in,  147;  see  Essex 
County,  Hudson  County 

New  Mexico,  establishment  of 
county  system  in,  22;  uni- 
form accounting  law  in,  122 

New  York  (city),  special 
legislation  for  counties  of, 
117;  abolition  of  coroners 
in,  134;  city-county  con- 
solidation proposals  in,  152; 
extent  of  city-county  con- 
solidation in,  156-157;  met- 
ropolitan district  compared 
to  London,  164 

New  York  (county),  large  fees 
of  sheriff  in,  51 

New  York  (state),  coun- 
ties of,  discussed  in  con- 
stitutional convention,  2-3; 
supervisors  in  towns  of,  19; 
elective  method  applied  to 
sheriffs  and  county  clerks 
in,  29;  district  attorneys  and 
county  judges  made  elective 
in,  29;  extent  of  merit  sys- 
tem in  counties  of,  52;  legal 
relation  of  sheriff  to  his 
deputies  in,  52-53;  require- 
ments as  to  county  advertis- 
ing, 53;  almshouses  in,  82; 
improvement  of  condition  of 
poor  in,  84;  New  England 
influences  in,  104;  enforce- 
ment of  anti-racing  laws  in, 
106;     under-assessment     of   ' 


taxes  by  local  officers,  109; 
equalization  of  taxes  in,  no; 
county  law  in,  114;  uniform 
reporting  law  in,  121;  civil 
service  regulation  in,  127; 
State  Board  of  Charities,  its 
jurisdiction,  128;  comptrol- 
ler, his  powers  over  county 
officers  in,  128;  the  surrogate 
in,  130;  state  prisons  in,  137; 
first  state  reformatory  in, 
137;  "state"  poor  in,  138; 
committee  on  State  Police, 
139;  highway  control  in, 
142;  County  Government 
Association,  its  recommenda- 
tions concerning  county 
home  rule,  148 ;  metropolitan 
district  of,  154;  proposal  for 
county  manager  in,  178; 
classification  of  county  ac- 
counts in,  184;  public  health 
movement  in,  195;  county 
libraries  in,  199;  see  also  Erie 
County,  Kings  County,  Mon- 
roe County,  Orange  County, 
Nassau  County,  Prison 
Assn.,    Westchester  County 

New  York  Times,  its  proposals 
for  abolishment  of  counties 
in  New  York  State,  152 

Niagara  County,  N.  Y.,  district 
attorney  quoted  concerning 
rural   post   office   robberies, 

138 

Niagara  Falls,  N.  Y.,  city 
manager  plan  in,  175 

North  Carolina,  influence  of 
Virginia  precedents  on,  19; 
lack  of  accounting  law  in, 
123;  pubHc  health  move- 
ment m,  195;  county  physi- 
cians in,  195;  home-study 
clubs  in,  204-205 

North  Dakota,  accounting  and 
reporting  legislation  in,   122 

Northwest,  importance  of 
county  as  unit  of  govern- 
ment in,  22;  New  England 
influences  in,  104 

Nullification,  104-111 


294 


INDEX 


Ohio,  county-township  system 

in,  20 ;  county  officers  in  first 

constitution     elective,     28 ; 

extent   of   merit   system   in 

counties  of,   52;  pioneer  in 

county  reporting,     1 21-122; 

state   penitentiary   in,    137; 

highway    progress    in,    142; 

county  libraries  in,  198-199; 

see    Cleveland,    Cincinnati, 

Darke  County 
Oklahoma,  uniform  accounting 

law  in,  122;  public  defender 

in, 199 
Omaha,  long  ballot  in,  owing 

to   elective  county  officers, 

63 

Orange  County,  N.  Y.,(Coimty 

"A"),  irregularities  of  offi- 
cers of,  70-71 

Ordinance  of  1787,  county 
officers  under,  appointive, 
28 

Oregon,  establishment  of  coun- 
ties in,  22;  county  local 
option  in,  150;  proposal  for 
county  manager  in,  178; 
county  libraries  in,  199 

Parks,  county  system  in  Essex 
County,  N.  J.,  163 

Party,  ,  organization,  impor- 
tance of  county  as  imit  of, 
55;  baneful  effects  upon 
county   administration,    191 

Payments,  frequency  of  il- 
legal, 188^ 

Pennsylvania,  commissioners 
in,  19;  party  organization  in, 
55;  care  of  dependent  chil- 
dren in,  86-87;  treatment  of 
insane  in,  88-89;  state  con- 
stabulary in,  140 

Pennybacker,  J.  E.,  on  high- 
ways, 140  et  seq. 

Philadelphia,  classification  as 
an  urban  county,  154 

Personnel,  importance  and  lim- 
itations of,  as  factor  in  good 
government,  67;  administra- 
tive, 191 ;  see  Civil  service 


Police,  ^  proposed  as  county 
function  in  Alameda  County, 
Cal.,  160  see  Constabulary 

Police  functions,  county  officers 
unable  to  perform,  in  com- 
plex communities,  58 

Political  boss,  origin  of,  in 
county  government,  47-48 

Polke  County,  Iowa,  awarding 
of  bridge  contracts  in,  100 

Poor,  care  of,  entrusted  to 
county  governments,  14-15; 
former  treatment  and  present 
scientific  handling  of,  82; 
superintendents  of,  in  N.  Y. 
State,  powers  of,  85;  over- 
seers of,  in  N,  Y.  State, 
commitments  by,  85;  im- 
portance of  records  con- 
cerning, 190;  administration 
of  laws  dealing  with,  200; 
see  Missouri,  N.  Y.  State, 
Pennsylvania 

Poverty,  prevention  of,  201 

Press  (county),  small  circula- 
tion, lack  of  independence, 
54;  need  for  improving,  194 

Prison  Association,  in  New 
York  State,  secretary  of, 
quoted,  91 

Prisoners,  classification  of,  83, 
84;  jurisdiction  of  county 
over,  90;  classification  of, 
systematically  violated,  91; 
transfer  of  certain  classes  of, 
to  state  institutions  advo- 
cated, 136-137 

Probation,  importance  of  re- 
cords concerning,  190 

Professional  politicians,  great 
opportunity  of,  in  obscurity 
of  county  government,  47 

Prosecutor,  appointment  of, 
advocated,  135;  see  District 
attorney 

Public  defender,   the,  199-200 

Public  Efficiency  Society,  work 
of,  in  Cook  County,  111.,  7 

Publicity,  importance  In  county 
affairs  of,  182 

Purchasing,  duplication  of  sys- 


INDEX 


295 


Purchasing — Continued 
terns  in  Milwaukee,  62; 
significance  of  bettermethods 
of,  181;  agent,  189;  consoli- 
dation of  local  agencies  for, 
190,  200,  201 

Qualifications  (legal)  of  county 
officers,  lack  of,  50 

Quick,  Herbert,  on  county 
government  in  Iowa,  76- 
77;  characterization  of 
county  government  by,  194 

Race  track  legislation,  en- 
forcement of,  by  local  county 
officers,   106-107 

Readjustments  of  county  sys- 
tem, 129-144  ^ 

Recall,  provisions  in  Los 
Angeles  County  charter  con- 
cerning, 240-244 

Reconstruction,  of  county  gov- 
ernment, 168-180;  formula 
for,  169 

Recorder,  appointive,  172 

Records,  usual  lack  of,  in  road 
management  by  counties, 
98;  in  Westchester  County 
almshouse,    200-201 

Reporting,  importance  of  uni- 
form, 121 

Responsibility,  lack  of  in 
organization  of  judiciary, 
131;  necessity  for  fixing  in 
counties,  1 70-1 71 

Rhode  Island,  origin  of  county 
in,  9;  influence  of  Massa- 
chusetts institutions  in,  19; 
sheriffs  appointed  by  legisla- 
ture in,  29;  lack  of  account- 
ing law  in,  123 

Roads  and  bridges,  94-103; 
under  Los  Angeles  County 
charter,  229-231 

Rochester,  N.  Y.,  proposals 
for  city-county  consolida- 
tions in,  152 

Rural  politics,  influence  of 
county  press  on,  55 

Rural  voter,  civic  capacity  of, 
44. 170 


St.  Louis  County  (Mo.),  city- 
county  consolidation  in,  153 

Salmon,  Dr.  Thomas  W.,  on 
county  almshouse  care  of 
insane,  89 

San  Bernardino  County,  Cal., 
adoption  and  amendment  of 
county  charter  in,   30,   31, 

San  Francisco,  classification  as 
an  urban  county,  154;  city- 
county  consolidation  in,  158- 

Saxon  kingdoms,  the  original 
of  English  counties,  23 

Secor,  Alson,  on  bridge  lobby 
at  Des  Moines,  101-102 

Sectionalism,  stimulated  by 
governmental  organization 
in  some  states,  97 

Selectmen,  functions  in  colonial 
Virginia,  16;  functions  of,  in 
New  England,  27 

Sheriff,  maladministration  of, 
in  a  central  N.  Y.  county,  4; 
historical  origin  of,  11;  court 
duties  of,  12;  duties  of,  in 
Virginia,  17;  elective  officer 
in  Pennsylvania  since  1726, 
28;  in  New  Jersey  after 
Revolution,  28;  falsity  of 
theory  imderlying  his  elec- 
tion, 32;  large  fees  of,  in 
New  York  County,  51; 
appointing  power  restricted 
in  New  Jersey,  52;  relation 
to  deputies  according  to  N.Y. 
courts,  52-53 ;  principal 
police  agency  in  early  local 
governments,  58 ;  conflict 
with  other  police  agencies, 
60,  61;  limitations  as  jail 
keeper,  90;  as  enforcer  of 
state  laws  in  N.  Y.  State, 
107;  imperfectly  controlled 
by  county  judge,  130;  func- 
tions as  court  officer  dis- 
cussed, 132;  suggestion  that 
governor  appoint,  133;  in- 
ability of,  in  dealing  with 
crime,     139;    encroachment 


296' 


INDEX 


Sheriff — Continued 

upon  functions  of,  by  De- 
partment of  Correction  in 
N.  Y.  City,  157;  appointive 
method  of  selection  of,  pro- 
posed, 171;  importance  of 
records  of,  190;  see  Rhode 
Island 

Short  ballot,  the  basic  principle 
of  county  reconstruction, 
169-170;  meaning  of,  181 

Solicitor,  see  District  Attorney 

South,  development  of  county 
in,  9;  the  insane  in  coimty 
almshouses  of,  S'j 

South  Carolina,  influence  of 
Virginia  precedents  on,  19; 
lack  of  accounting  law  in, 
123;  appointive  judiciary 
in,   131 

Southwest,  importance  of 
county  as  unit  of  local  gov- 
ernment in,  22 

Special  legislation,  testimony 
of  county  officer  concerning, 
in  N.  Y.  constitutional  con- 
vention, 4 

State  constitutions,  provi- 
sions of,  concerning  counties, 
112 

control  in  taxation,   126 

examiners  in  Ohio,  121 

government,        stiffening 

hold  on  highway  matters, 
95;  influence  in  county 
affairs,  11 2-1 19 

legislatures,  power  over 


counties,  112 

—  party  organization,  built 
upon  county  units,  55 

supervision    of    accoimts 


recommended,  185 

State's  attorney,  see  District 
Attorney 

Suffolk  County,  Mass.,  see 
Boston 

Suffolk  County,  N.  Y.,  work 
of  Taxpayers  Assn.  in,  Jl 

Superintendent  of  the  poor, 
appointive  method  of  selec- 
tion proposed,  171 


Supervisor  (town),  functions  of, 
in  N.  Y.,  27;  elective  officers 
in  N.  Y.  since  169 1,  28;  in 
Hudson  County,  N.  J.,  40; 
influence  in  road  affairs, 
97;  see  Board  of  super- 
visors, Essex  County  and 
Hudson  County,  N.  J. 

Surrogate,  jurisdiction  of,  in 
probate  matters,  130 

Surveyor,  appointive,  172;  see 
County  surveyor 

System  (of  government),  im- 
portance of,  as  contrasted 
with  personnel,  66,  74,  78 


Tammany  Hall,  Its  Influence 
exercised  through  control  of 
county  offices,  55 

Tax  administration,  inappro- 
priateness  of  town  as  unit 
for  ,144;  dual  system  of,  in 
California,  160 

collector,  appointive,  172 

laws,  nullification  of,  by 

local  officers,    108 

Taylor,  Graham,  on  humani- 
tarian functions  of  county, 
80-81 

Tehama  County  (Cal.)»  charter 
of,  149 

Telephone,  effect  on  rural  life 
and  government,  24 

Tennessee,  influence  of  early 
Virginia  precedents  on 
county  government,  20 ; 
county  officers  of,  made 
appointive,  28;  uniform  ac- 
counting law  in,  122 

Texas,  American  county  sys- 
tem established  in,  22;  lack 
of  accounting  law  in,  123; 
county  local  option  in,  150 

Town,  dominant  idea  in  local 
government  of  New  England, 
17;  relation  of  county  to,  in 
New  England,  143;  Inappro- 
priateness  of,  for  perform- 
ance of  certain  functions, 
143-144 


INDEX 


297 


Township  officers  In  Los  Ange- 
les County  charter,  225-227 

Treasurer,  elective  in  Massa- 
chusetts, 2^',  appointive,  172 
see  county  treasurer 

Tuberculosis,  effect  upon  gen- 
eral public  health  movement 
of  fight  against,  195 

Turnpike  companies,  as  road 
builders  and  operators,  94 

Uniformity  in  county  legisla- 
tion, 112  et  seq. 
Urban  communities,  growth  of, 

57 

Urban  counties,  57-65 

Utah,  establishment  of  coun- 
ties in,  22 ;  lack  of  accounting 
law  in,  123 

Vermont,  lack  of  accounting 
law  in,  123 

Virginia,  origin  of  counties  of, 
16;  constitutional  conven- 
tion ;  discussion  concerning 
local  government  in,  29; 
reaction  against  appointive 
system  of,  29;  lack  of  ac- 
counting law  in,  123;  high- 
way progress  in,  142;  in- 
dependent cities  of,  153 


Westchester  County,  work  of 
Research  Bureau,  7;  pat- 
ronage in  political  advertis- 
ing, 53-54;  _  recommenda- 
tions of  official  commission 
in,  for  county  home  rule, 
148;  auditing  practices  in, 
184;  discrepancies  between 
estimates,  etc.,  for  poor 
relief  in,  184;  see  County 
planning,  V.  Everit  Macy 

Westchester  County  Chamber 
of  Commerce,  its  activities 
in  county  planning,  197;  in 
activities  for  better  county 
government,  204 

Westchester  County  Research 
Bureau,  statement  concern- 
ing budget  making,  186-187 

Western  Reserve,  New  Eng- 
land influences  in,  20,  104 

West  Virginia,  uniform  ac- 
counting law  in,  122 

Wisconsin,  compromise  plan  of 
county  government;  town- 
ship system  in,  21;  spoils 
system  in,  52 ;  provisions  for 
county  graduate  nurse  in, 
196;  county  libraries  in,  199 

Wyoming,  auditing  system  in, 
122;  county  libraries  in,  199 


RETURN  TO  the  circulation  desk  of  any 
University  of  California  Library 
or  to  the 
NORTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 
Bldg.  400,  Richmond  Field  Station 
University  of  California 
Richmond,  CA  94804-4698 

ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 

•  2-month  loans  may  be  renewed  by  calling 
(510)642-6753 

•  1-year  loans  may  be  recharged  by  bringing 
books  to  NRLF 

•  Renewals  and  recharges  may  be  made  4 
days  prior  to  due  date. 

DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 

MAY  11  2001 


lunrnrTutir 


JUN  1  2  2002 


12,000(11/95) 


U.C.  BERKELEY  LIBRARIES 


CD3'^3bEH37 


tuplicate 
Mue.  Sal 

I    ,»'m».ip»-'  ■ 


n 


rA" 


A. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


